GOOD
EVENING EVERYONE AND WELCOME TO
THE APRIL 17 MEETING OF THE ANN
ARBOR CITY COUNCIL LOSS IS LOSS
AND THE DIFFICULT LOSS IS
OF COURSE PART OF PART OF THE
HUMAN EXPERIENCE.
IT'S PART OF OUR EVERY
COMMUNITY ACROSS THE GLOBE AND
OF COURSE PART OF PART OF OUR
COMMUNITY AS WELL.
WE HAVE OVER THIS PAST WEEK
LOST AND AN EXTRAORDINARY
COMMUNITY MEMBER, A COMMUNITY
MEMBER WHOSE WHOSE LIFE SHE
LIVED AND THE THE HORROR OF HER
PASSING WEREN'T WEREN'T SPECIAL
RECOGNITION TO THAT END.
MISS DJAKARTA
, THANKS.
THANK YOU, D. IT S
SO AS I WAS
SAYING, THANK YOU FOR GIVING ME
JUST A FEW MOMENTS TO SPEAK
ABOUT OUR FORMER COMMISSIONER
JEWED WALTIN.
FIRST OF ALL, I JUST HAVE TO
SAY THE MEMBERS OF THE
COMMISSION ARE HEARTSICK.
IT'S REALLY THE ONLY WORD I
COULD THINK OF TO DESCRIBE IT.
WE'RE HEARTSICK THAT THIS
TERRIBLE THING COULD HAPPEN TO
SOMEONE THAT WE ALL KNOW AND
LOVE.
SHE WAS ONE OF THE ORIGINAL
COMMISSIONERS AT THE INCEPTION
OF THE INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY
POLICE OVERSIGHT COMMISSION AND
HAD A TREMENDOUS IMPACT ON
XPAC.
HER WORK WILL BE GUIDING OUR
WORK AND OUR MISSION FOR A LONG
TIME TO COME.
JUST A FEW THINGS THAT SHE DID
FOR POSSIBLE WISDOM AND
EXPERIENCE THAT WAS NEEDED TO
LAUNCH XPAC SHE LED IN THE
ESTABLISHMENT OF OUR BUDGET SHE
FORMULATED INTO QUESTIONS FOR
CANDIDATES SHE DEVELOPED THE
TRAINING REQUIREMENTS FOR THE
COMMISSIONERS AND SHE HOSTED
MANY OF OUR MEETINGS AND
TRAINING SESSIONS AND I KNOW
YOU'VE PROBABLY READ ABOUT HER
AND YOU KNOW WHAT SHE MEANT TO
THE COMMUNITY AT LARGE.
SHE MEANT THESE THINGS TO XPAC
.
I SPOKE TO SOME OF THE
COMMISSIONERS AND OTHER PEOPLE
THAT WORKED CLOSELY WITH YOU.
THE ONE THING THAT EVERYONE
SAID ABOUT HER WAS HOW KIND SHE
WAS.
HER KINDNESS WAS EVIDENT TO
EVERYONE WHO KNEW HER AND THAT
KINDNESS WILL BE REMEMBERED.
SHE WAS KIND IN HER PERSONAL
LIFE AND SHE WAS KIND IN HER
PROFESSIONAL LIFE.
WE JUST DON'T UNDERSTAND HOW
SUCH TERRIBLE THING COULD
HAPPEN.
BUT EVERYONE WHO CAME AND
CONTACT WITH YOU SPOKE OF HER
KINDNESS, EMERSON SAID YOU
CANNOT DO KINDNESS TO SOME FOR
YOU NEVER KNOW HOW SOON IT WILL
BE TOO LATE.
I THINK ABOUT THAT WE THINK
ABOUT JUDE AND I JUST WANT TO
SUGGEST THAT PERHAPS AS WE MOVE
INTO OUR MOMENT OF SILENCE THAT
IN HONOR AND IN HER REMEMBRANCE
WE COMMIT TO BEING A LITTLE
KINDER TO EACH OTHER EVERY DAY.
THANK YOU.
IF YOU'RE AT ALL, PLEASE STAND
AND JOIN US FOR A MOMENT
OF SILENCE FOLLOWED BY THE
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
, THE FLAG
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND TO THE REPUBLIC WHICH IS
ONE NATION UNDER GOD,
INDIVISIBLE WITH LIBERTY AND
JUSTICE FOR ALL OUR CLARK
PLEASE CALL THE ROLE
OF COUNSELOR COUNSEL NO DOUBT.
COME HERE TO OUR HARRISON
COUNTERPARTS ON YOUR
ELSEWHERE
WATSON YOUR CUSTOMER DENHA HERE
HOUSEWARE 01 HERE MERCOLA HERE
CUSTOMER IHR HERE CUSTOMER
ACKMANN HERE CUSTOMER BREAKS
HERE CUSTOMER KORNEL HERE WE
HAVE A QUORUM MOTION.
PLEASE APPROVE THE AGENDA BY
CUSTOMER READINESS CUSTOMER
BECAUSE HE HAD ONE DISCUSSION
OF THE AGENDA ON SABOR POST THE
AGENDA IS APPROVED MISS MOUZON
WE HAVE A NUMBER
OF INTRODUCTIONS TODAY.
OUR FIRST INTRODUCTION THE
PROCLAMATION OF APRIL TWENTY
TWENTY THREE AS NATIONAL ARAB
AMERICAN HERITAGE MONTH PLEASE
IN OUR IS IS OF COURSE DEFINED
BY OUR VALUES DEFINED BY OUR
ARE THE EXTENT TO WHICH WE ARE
A WELCOMING COMMUNITY.
WE ARE BLESSED IN ANN ARBOR TO
HAVE PEOPLE IN OUR HOMES,
PEOPLE AMONG US, PEOPLE WHO
COMPRISE US FROM ALL OVER THE
WORLD AND IT MAKES US IT MAKES
US WHAT WE ARE AND IN THAT
LIGHT IT IS MY GREAT PLEASURE
TO HONOR ARAB AMERICANS HERE IN
OUR COMMUNITY THROUGH THE
PROCLAMATION OF NATIONAL
ARAB-AMERICAN HERITAGE MONTH.
I DON'T JUST READ A LITTLE BIT
HERE AND THERE WHEREAS FOR OVER
A CENTURY ARAB AMERICANS HAVE
BEEN MAKING VALUABLE
CONTRIBUTIONS TO EVERY ASPECT
OF AMERICAN SOCIETY IN MEDICINE
,LAW, BUSINESS, EDUCATION,
TECHNOLOGY, MILITARY SERVICE,
CULTURE AND WHEREAS UPON
IMMIGRATION THEY HAVE BROUGHT
WITH THEM TO AMERICA RESILIENT
FAMILY VALUES, STRONG WORK
ETHIC, DEDICATION, EDUCATION,
DIVERSITY AND FAITH AND CREED
THAT HAVE ADDED STRENGTH TO OUR
GREAT DEMOCRACY.
AND WHEREAS THE HISTORY OF ARAB
AMERICANS IN THE UNITED STATES
REMAINS REGRETTABLY NEGLECTED
AND OR DEFACED BY
MISCONCEPTIONS, BIGOTRY AND
ANTI ARAB HATE IN THE FORMS
OF SPEECH AND CRIME WHEREAS
ARAB-AMERICAN ISSUES SUCH CIVIL
RIGHTS, HARMFUL STEREOTYPING
AND BULLYING MUST BE COMBATED
IN THE FORM OF EDUCATION AND
AWARENESS WHEREAS ARAB
AMERICANS JOIN ALL AMERICANS
AND THE DESIRE TO SEE A
PEACEFUL AND DIVERSE SOCIETY
WHERE EVERY INDIVIDUAL IS
TREATED EQUALLY AND FEEL SAFE
WHEREAS THE INCREDIBLE
CONTRIBUTIONS AND HERITAGE
OF ARAB AMERICANS HAVE HELPED
US BUILD A BETTER NATION AND
I'D LIKE TO ADD A BETTER CITY
NOW FOR I.
CHRISTOPHER TAYLOR, MAYOR OF AN
ARBOR, MICHIGAN, ANNOUNCED THE
ARAB AMERICAN FOUNDATION
CELEBRATES THE CONTRIBUTIONS
OF ARAB AMERICANS TO OUR
COMMUNITY AND DECLARE APRIL
TWENTY TWENTY THREE TO BE ARAB
AND ARAB AMERICAN HERITAGE
MONTH IN THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
BY ALL MEANS.
SO ON BEHALF OF AMERICAN
COMMUNITY, I WANT TO THANK YOU
FOR YOUR LEADERSHIP AND FOR
YOUR UNWAVERING COMMITMENT TO
MAKING A WELCOMING AND
INCLUSIVE CITY FOR YOUR SUPPORT
MEANS A LOT TO US AND WE ARE
PROUD TO BE PART OF THIS
VIBRANT COMMUNITY ONCE AGAIN.
THANK FOR THAT PROCLAMATION AND
WE LOOK FORWARD FOR CONTINUING
OUR PARTNERSHIP WITH YOU IN
CREATING A BETTER FUTURE FOR
ANOTHER.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU
.
WE GOT ANOTHER PROCLAMATION IF
I COULD BE JOINED BY THE
INDOMITABLE DON CLARK BAUDRY
PROCLAMATION.
FIFTY FOURTH ANNUAL
PROFESSIONAL MUNICIPAL CLERKS
WEEK THE WHOLE OF THE OF THE
CITY CLERK, THE COUNTY CLERK,
THE MUNICIPAL CLERK IS PERHAPS
NOT WELL KNOWN TO FOLKS OUTSIDE
OF OUTSIDE OF THE HALLS
OF MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENT BUT THE
CLERKS HERE AND EVERYWHERE ARE
ABSOLUTELY FUNDAMENTAL TO
EVERYTHING WE DO.
THEY ARE CENTRAL TO THE DEFENSE
AND AND PROPAGATION.
THAT'S PROBABLY A WORD
SOMEWHERE THAT I'M SURE SOMEONE
WILL FIND ONE PROPAGATION
OF DEMOCRACY BOTH HERE AND
THAT'S PROTECTION THROUGHOUT
THROUGHOUT OUR VARIOUS
COMMUNITIES HERE IN ANN ARBOR.
WE ARE INCREDIBLY GRATEFUL TO
HAVE A CITY CLERK AND A CLERK'S
OFFICE THAT DOES OUTSTANDING
WORK, THAT PROMOTES ELECTIONS,
THAT PROMOTES VOTING, THAT
ENABLES EVERYONE IN OUR
COMMUNITY WHO WISHES TO VOTE
AND IS ALLOWED TO VOTE TO BE
ABLE TO VOTE.
AND WE ARE JUST WE'RE JUST SO
EXCITED AND PROUD ABOUT THE
WORK THAT THAT HAS DONE HERE IN
STATE BY STAFF AND SO TO ME TO
TO TO DECLARE WHERE THIS
PROCLAMATION WEEK SO I'LL JUST
READ A LITTLE BIT OF WAS THE
OFFICE OF THE PROFESSIONAL
MUNICIPAL CLERK IS A TIME
HONORED AND VALUED PART
OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD WHEREAS THE OFFICE
OF PROFESSIONAL MUNICIPAL CLERK
IS AMONG THE OLDEST OF PUBLIC
SERVANTS AND WE'RE AS A
PROFESSIONAL MUNICIPAL CLERKS
HAVE PLEDGED TO BE EVER MINDFUL
OF THEIR NEUTRALITY AND
IMPARTIALITY, RENDERING EQUAL
SERVICE TO ALL MAYOR AND
PROFESSIONAL MUNICIPAL CLERKS
CONTINUALLY STRIVE TO IMPROVE
THE ADMINISTRATION AFFAIRS
OF THE OFFICE OF CLERK TO
PARTICIPATION IN EDUCATION
PROGRAMS, SEMINARS, WORKSHOPS
AND ANNUAL MEETINGS WHEREAS IT
IS THEREFORE MOST APPROPRIATE
THAT WE RECOGNIZE THE
ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF THE OFFICE
OF PROFESSIONAL MUNICIPAL NOW
THEREFORE I.
CHRISTOPHER TAYLOR, MAYOR
OF ANN ARBOR DO RECOGNIZE THE
WEEK OF APRIL 30 THROUGH MAY
SIX TWENTY TWENTY THREE AS
PROFESSIONAL MUNICIPAL CLERKS
WEEK AND FURTHER EXTEND
APPRECIATION OF OUR PROFESSION.
YOU SEE I JUST ALWAYS WANT TO
SAY PARTICIPATION WHENEVER I'M
THINKING OF KIRKCUDBRIGHT THE
APPRECIATION OF PROFESSIONAL
BOOKER JACQUELINE BAUDRY AND
ALL THE MUNICIPAL CLERKS FOR
THEIR VITAL SERVICE THAT THEY
PERFORM AND THEIR EXEMPLARY
DEDICATION TO THE COMMUNITIES
THEY REPRESENT.
THANK YOU
.
THANK YOU MAYOR AND COUNCIL.
I JUST WANTED TO RECOGNIZE MY
STAFF.
I THINK THEY BROUGHT THIS TO
YOUR ATTENTION.
THIS IS A FIFTY FOURTH ANNUAL
MUNICIPAL CLERKS WEEK BUT
USUALLY JUST QUIETLY PASSES.
BUT I HAVE THIS WONDERFUL
ENERGETIC PROFESSIONAL TEAM AND
THEY WANTED THIS WEEK TO BE
NOTICED SO I APPRECIATE THEIR
WORK AND I APPRECIATE YOU
TAKING A FEW MINUTES TO
RECOGNIZE US.
THANK YOU.
I KNOW OUR POPULATION APRIL
TWENTY TWENTY TWENTY THREE AS
WORKERS MEMORIAL DAY
THE NUMBER
AS I'VE DESCRIBED EARLIER IS A
COMMUNITY THAT IS DEFINED IN
MANY RESPECTS BY ITS VALUES AND
ONE OF ITS CORE VALUES IS THE
PROTECTION OF THE RIGHT TO
COLLECTIVELY BARGAIN IN THE
RIGHT OF WORKERS TO COME
TOGETHER TO EVEN THE PLAYING
FIELD BETWEEN THE EMPLOYER THE
MANAGER AND THE WORKERS.
THE DRIVE FOR WORKERS TO
UNIONIZE OF COURSE HAS BEGUN
MANY DECADES AGO AND IS NOT YET
FINISHED WITH RESPECT TO THE
ITS DANCES FOR FOUR WORKERS
THEIR RIGHTS, THEIR JOB
PERFORMANCE, THEIR ABILITY TO
ENJOY THE FRUITS OF THEIR LABOR
ONE OF COURSE ONE OFTEN THINKS
OF WAGES AND OTHER WORKING
CONDITIONS AND BENEFITS WHEN IT
COMES TO THE BENEFITS OF OF
ORGANIZED LABOR.
BUT WORKER SAFETY IS AMONG THE
CORE BENEFITS AND THE PROMOTION
OF WORKER SAFETY IS AMONG THE
CORE BENEFITS OF AN ORGANIZED
WORKFORCE.
I'M SO DELIGHTED THAT THAT
COUNCIL MEMBER IS BROUGHT THIS
WEEK TO MY ATTENTION ALONG WITH
MEMBERS OF ORGANIZED LABOR AND
I AM JUST DELIGHTED THAT WE ARE
ABLE HERE TO RECOGNIZE THE THE
WORK THAT THAT IS ONGOING TO
CONTINUE TO PROMOTE WORKER
SAFETY IN THE UNITED STATES.
WHEREAS EVERY YEAR APRIL TWENTY
EIGHT COMMUNITIES AND WORK
SITES AROUND THE WORLD HONOR
FRIENDS, FAMILY MEMBERS AND
COLLEAGUES WHO HAVE BEEN KILLED
OR INJURED ON THE JOB WHEREAS
IN TWENTY TWENTY ONE THE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF LABOR
STATISTICS ESTIMATED THAT FIVE
THOUSAND ONE HUNDRED NINETY
WORKERS WERE KILLED BY
TRAUMATIC INJURIES ON THE JOB.
AN AVERAGE OF NEARLY ONE
HUNDRED WORKERS EVERY WEEK
WHEREAS IN TWENTY TWENTY ONE
ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY WORKERS
WERE LOST THROUGH FATAL
WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS HERE IN
MICHIGAN AND WHEREAS IT IS
APPROPRIATE TO HONOR THE MEMORY
OF THE COURAGEOUS AND DEDICATED
MEMBERS OF THE ENTIRE LABOR
FORCE WHO HAVE BEEN INJURED OR
DISABLED OR HAVE DIED AS A
RESULT OF WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS
WHEREAS THE CITY THAT NUMBER
WISHES TO PAY TRIBUTE TO THESE
WORKERS WHO HAVE DIED, BEEN
INJURED OR DISABLED AND WE
HONOR THE CONTRIBUTION
CONTRIBUTIONS OF MICHIGAN'S
WORKFORCE AND CALL FOR
INCREASED WORKER SAFETY WHEREAS
THE NUMBER RENEWS OUR EFFORTS
TO SEEK STRONGER WORKPLACE
SAFETY AND HEALTH PROTECTIONS,
BETTER STANDARDS AND
ENFORCEMENT AND FAIR AND JUST
COMPENSATION BY REDEDICATING
OURSELVES TO IMPROVING THE
SAFETY AND HEALTH OF EVERY CITY
WORKPLACE.
NOW THEREFORE I CHRISTOPHER
TAYLOR, MAYOR BANABA DO HEREBY
PROCLAIM APRIL TWENTY EIGHT
TWENTY TWENTY THREE TO BE
WORKERS MEMORIAL DAY IN THE
CITY OF BANABA AND URGE ALL
CITIZENS TO RECOGNIZE AND HONOR
THE CONTRIBUTIONS OF MICHIGAN'S
WORKFORCE AND TO CALL FOR
INCREASED WORKPLACE SAFETY
.
THANK YOU MR. MAYOR AND THANK
YOU TO COUNCIL FOR RECOGNIZING
THIS VERY IMPORTANT DAY.
MY NAME IS ROBERT GEORGE AND
WITH THE LABORERS LOOKING FOR
NINE NINE AND ALSO A TRUSTEE
FOR THE HUON VALLEY AREA LABOR
FEDERATION, WE REPRESENT
THOUSANDS OF WORKERS ACROSS THE
STATE MICHIGAN AS FOLKS KNOW
FROM THE PROCLAMATION TO MANY
WORKERS DON'T COME HOME AT
NIGHT EVERY SINGLE DAY ACROSS
OUR GREAT COUNTRY IN OUR STATE
AND IT'S SOMETHING THAT PEOPLE
NEED TO REMEMBER AS FOLKS GO
ABOUT THEIR DAY THAT ESPECIALLY
IN THE PRIVATE CONSTRUCTION
INDUSTRY THAT THOUSANDS
OF PEOPLE EVERY
YEAR NEVER COME
HOME.
THEY NEVER SEE THEIR FAMILIES
AGAIN AND IT'S SOMETHING THAT
IS A TRUE LOSS AND IT'S
SOMETHING THAT LOCAL GOVERNMENT
CAN PLAY A ROLE IN COMBATING BY
PRIORITIZING SAFETY MEASURES
AND CONTRACTORS THAT INVEST IN
EDUCATION AND TRAINING THAT YOU
CAN HAVE A HIGHLY SKILLED
WORKFORCE THAT IS ABLE TO
COMPETENTLY DO THE JOB WELL AND
SAFELY AND BE ABLE TO ENSURE
THAT THE WHOLE COMMUNITY CAN
REST ASSURED THAT PEOPLE CAN DO
THE JOB WELL AND MAKE SURE THAT
NO ONE EVER HAS TO EXPERIENCE A
LOSS THAT SOME OF THESE FOLKS
HAVE HAD TO ENDURE.
SO THANK YOU AGAIN FOR THIS
RESOLUTION AND THANK YOU FOR
THE WORK THAT YOU HAVE BEEN
DOING, MR. TONY
.
THIS IS THE ONE DAY YOU THAT I
GET TO STAND AND ACTUALLY FACE
YOU THE WONDERFUL
MEMBERS
OF COUNCIL.
IT'S MY PLEASURE TO STAND
BEFORE YOU THIS EVENING TO
PRESENT THE CITY ADMINISTRATORS
PROPOSED BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR
TWENTY FOUR POINT TWENTY FIVE
EACH YEAR.
WE HAVE TO BE INTENTIONAL
INTENTIONAL ABOUT WHAT WE'RE
TRYING TO ACCOMPLISH WITH THE
BUDGET FOR THIS YEAR THAT IS
POSITIONING FOR A LONG TERM
IMPACT.
THE BUDGET'S PURPOSE IS NOT
ONLY TO CLARIFY HOW WE PROPOSE
TO INVEST THE PUBLIC DOLLARS
THAT WE ARE ENTRUSTED TO MANAGE
BUT IT IS ALSO NECESSARY FOR US
TO BE TRANSPARENT ABOUT THE
DIRECTION THAT WE BELIEVE WE
SHOULD TAKE.
I'M GOING TO DO A PRESENTATION
FOR YOU THIS EVENING THAT
TOUCHES ON BOTH THINGS SOME
NOTION OF HOW WE PROPOSE TO
INVEST PUBLIC DOLLARS BUT ALSO
TO TALK ABOUT DIRECTIONS THAT
WE BELIEVE WE SHOULD TAKE.
YOU HAVE YOUR BUDGET BOOKS.
YOU HAVE MY DETAILED BUDGET
MESSAGE THAT I WILL NOT STAND
HERE AND READ NUMBERS BACK TO
YOU OR USE NUMBERS JUST FOR
CONTEXT PURPOSES.
BUT THE FULL DETAILS OF HOW THE
BUDGET IS THERE BEFORE YOU.
SO WE'RE PRESENTING A PROPOSED
BUDGET ALL FUNDS FIVE HUNDRED
AND SIXTY THREE MILLION DOLLARS
SIX HUNDRED AND SIXTY SIX
THOUSAND.
THE GENERAL FUND WHICH IS THE
BREAD AND BUTTER THAT MAKES UP
THE SERVICES THAT MANY OF OUR
RESIDENTS COME TO EXPECT IS
JUST SHY OF ONE HUNDRED AND
THIRTY MILLION DOLLARS.
A GENERAL FUND HAS EXPERIENCE
SIX POINT FOUR PERCENT GROWTH
STATE REVENUE IS ESSENTIALLY
FLAT AT ONE PERCENT AND OUR
PENSION SYSTEM IS STILL AMONG
THE GOLD STANDARD IN THE UNITED
STATES.
IF YOU UNDERSTAND PENSION
SYSTEMS WITHIN THAT INDUSTRY,
IF YOU ARE 70 PERCENT FUNDED
THAT IS CONSIDERED VERY GOOD
FOR US TO BE AT 90 PERCENT IS
EXTRAORDINARY AND SO WE'RE
POSITIVE ABOUT HAVING THAT AT
THE SAME TIME WE SEE PRESSURE
MOUNTING FROM A FISCAL
STANDPOINT.
WE ARE CHARGED WITH BEING A
CONSERVATIVE SO WE LOOK AT THE
FACT THAT THE ECONOMISTS ARE
STILL FORECASTING A POTENTIAL
RECESSION IN THE CALENDAR YEAR
WHEN WE LOOK AT THE FACT THAT
STATES THAT REVENUE IS FLAT
THAT ARE WANT TO EXCISE TAX
RECEIPTS HAVE ESSENTIALLY
LEVELED OFF AND WE THOUGHT THEY
WOULD CONTINUE TO RISE EVEN
THOUGH WE HAVE SOLID GROWTH IN
THE GENERAL FUND.
THOSE OTHER FACTORS ARE THERE
AND IT'S OUR RESPONSE OUR
ABILITY TO TAKE NOTE OF IT WITH
YOU.
IT'S NOT ABOUT DOOMSDAY.
IT'S NOT ABOUT THE SKY IS
FALLING.
WE'RE NOT YOU'RE SAYING THE
WORLD IS GOING TO END BUT WE
ARE ALERTING YOU THAT WE SEE
CONDITIONS IN THE FUTURE, THAT
WE SEE CONDITIONS IN THE FUTURE
ARE WORTH NOTING WITHIN TWO TO
FOUR YEARS OUR RECURRING
EXPENSES WILL ECLIPSE OUR
RECURRING REVENUES.
WE NEED TO PAY ATTENTION TO
THAT.
>> WE PIVOT NOW TO CELEBRATING
ANN ARBOR.
WHAT YOU SEE ON THE SCREEN IS
THE LOGO THAT HAS BEEN DESIGNED
TO RECOGNIZE OUR BASANT.
AS YOU KNOW, I'M ONE OF THE
PEOPLE LEADING THE COMMUNITY
WIDE EFFORT TO PREPARE FOR THE
CELEBRATION FOR NEXT YEAR.
DR. MISSY STOLTZ IS HEADING UP
THE INTERNAL CITY GOVERNMENT
PREPARATION FOR THE
BICENTENNIAL CELEBRATION.
OUR PLAN IS TO CELEBRATE ACROSS
TWELVEFOLD ONCE NOT ONE MONTH,
NOT ONE WEEK THAT ONE DAY BUT
ALL TWELVE MONTHS.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE ARE
PROPOSING TO DO IS TO INVEST
TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS IN
THIS YEAR AND NEXT YEAR FISCAL
YEAR BUDGET IN ORDER TO SUPPORT
THE EFFORTS OF THE BICENTENNIAL
ACTIVITIES IT WOULD HELP TO
COVER THE ACTIVITIES THAT CITY
GOVERNMENT IS DOING SUCH AS A
PLANNED SALUTE FOR FORMER
OLYMPIANS WHO ARE FROM ANN
ARBOR AN IDEA THAT WAS
PRESENTED TO US BY AN OLYMPIAN
ALSO WOULD ALLOW US TO PARTNER
WITH ESTIMATES THAT OFFER TO
PROCURE A PHOTOGRAPHER AND
VIDEOGRAPHER WHO WOULD CAPTURE
THE ESSENCE OF WHAT HAPPENS
ACROSS THE TWELVE MONTHS.
THIS IS A MILESTONE WITHIN THE
CITY'S HISTORY.
WE SHOULD CAPTURE AND WE NEED
TO PRESERVE WHAT WE DO FOR
GOING FORWARD IN ADDITION TO
THE TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND
DOLLARS PER YEAR THAT WE'RE
PROPOSING TO ALLOCATE THERE ARE
ALSO BE ADDITIONAL LEVERAGING
THAT TAKES PLACE THROUGH WHAT
WE CALL COLBRAN CALL BRANDING
OUR ACTIVITIES.
WE'RE ALREADY GOING TO DO THAT
IN TWENTY TWENTY FOUR.
YOU WILL SIMPLY DO IT UNDER OUR
BICENTENNIAL BANNER AND SO BY
LEVERAGING ACTIVITIES THAT WE
ALREADY HAVE PLANNED THAT WILL
ADD ANOTHER SEVERAL HUNDRED
THOUSAND DOLLARS TO THE CITIES
INVESTMENT IN BICENTENNIAL, WE
ARE ALSO ENCOURAGED OTHER
ORGANIZATIONS ACROSS THE CITY
TO DO LIKEWISE AS AN EXAMPLE
THIS COMING SUMMER THE BOARD IS
PLANNING ON BEGINNING TO
COLDPLAY AND THEIR ACTIVITY SO
THAT THEIR ARTISTS WILL HAVE A
YEAR'S NOTICE THAT NEXT YEAR IS
THE BICENTENNIAL WHICH MIGHT
INFLUENCE SOME OF THE PRODUCTS
SOME OF THE ARTWORK THAT THEY
BRING HERE TO SELL ONE OF THE
LEGACY PROJECTS THAT WE WOULD
LIKE TO DO IS TO CREATE
BICENTENNIAL PARK.
WE PROPOSE TO TAKE WHAT IS
CURRENTLY FULLER PARK, RENAME
IT TO BICENTENNIAL PARK AND
PLACE A NUMBER OF NEW AMENITIES
WITHIN THE PARK.
THIS WILL NOT BE ACCOMPLISHED
IN A SINGLE YEAR.
IT WILL REQUIRE INVESTMENT FROM
CITY GOVERNMENT.
BUT THERE ARE ALSO
OPPORTUNITIES FOR SPONSORSHIPS
IN ORDER TO MAKE THIS VISION
COME TO REALITY.
PARK BY THE WAY, IS NOT
DEDICATED TO AN INDIVIDUAL SO
WE'RE NOT TAKING A NAME AWAY
FROM SOMEONE.
FULLER STREET IS DEDICATED TO
AN INDIVIDUAL BUT FULLER PARK
IS NOT SO THE LEGACY PROJECT
WOULD INCLUDE I GUESS WE'VE GOT
TO GO BACK TO CLASSES
.
WE WANT TO DO A UNIVERSAL
ACCESS CLASS PAIRED GEOTHERMAL
SYSTEMS TO MAKE THE PARK
CARBON NEUTRAL.
WE PROPOSE TO DO A SCULPTURE TO
FORM OUR OLYMPIANS.
WE WANT TO DO A SCULPTURE
GARDEN TO PAY TRIBUTE TO
INDIGENOUS LANDHOLDERS.
WE'D LIKE TO SEE SENSORY TRAILS
PUT IN THE PARK.
GIVEN THE PROXIMITY TO
CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL WE'D LIKE
TO A SHELTER BUILDING FOR
PARKS PROGRAMING AND WE'D ALSO
LIKE TO ADD COMMUNITY GARDEN
PLOTS AGAIN CAN HAPPEN IN A
SINGLE YEAR WOULD REQUIRE
INVESTMENTS FROM CITY
GOVERNMENT BUT ALSO SPONSORSHIP
OPPORTUNITIES FOR ORGANIZATIONS
THAT MAY WANT TO PUT THEIR NAME
ON SOMETHING THAT WE'RE DOING
STILL WITHIN THE FOCUS
OF CELEBRATING ANN ARBOR IS OUR
SISTER CITY OF TUBINGEN,
GERMANY.
THIS SUMMER WE WILL BE SENDING
A DELEGATION THERE TO VISIT.
THEY WILL HOST OUR DELEGATION
OVER SEVERAL DAYS.
THE PICTURES THAT YOU SEE ON
THE SCREEN ARE FROM TUEBINGEN.
THEY ARE PROPOSING TO SEND THE
DELEGATION HERE NEXT YEAR FOR
SIX DAYS AND WE'RE ALLOCATING
THIRTY THOUSAND DOLLARS IN
ORDER TO COVER THE ACTIVIA
OF THE DELEGATION WHILE THEY'RE
HERE THEY ARE TRYING TO PLAN
THEIR TRIP TO COINCIDE WITH
SOME OF THE EVENTS AND
ACTIVITIES THAT ARE TAKING
PLACE IN HONOR OF THE
CELEBRATION
.
SO SOMETIME DURING THE SUMMER
MONTHS WE PROBABLY WILL BE
ENTERTAINING THEIR VISIT.
WE EXPERIMENT INTO SUPPORTING
DEMOCRACY.
IF YOU THINK BACK TO THE LAST
ELECTION THERE WERE TWO
NARRATIVES AT PLAY THE LONG
LINES THAT WERE EXPERIENCED IN
ANN ARBOR AND ACROSS THE
COUNTRY AND THE SECOND
NARRATIVE AROUND VOTER
INTEGRITY THE PROTECTION OF THE
BALLOTS, THE PROTECTION OF THE
COUNT IN ORDER TO ADDRESS THIS
WE ARE PROPOSING TO ESTABLISH
AN ELECTION CENTER.
AN ELECTION CENTER WILL BE AN
ACTUAL PHYSICAL LOCATION.
THE ELECTION CENTER WILL BE
MANAGED BY THE OFFICE OF THE
CLERK.
IT WOULD GIVE THEM SPACE TO
PROCESS BALLOTS.
SECURE BALLOTS.
IT WOULD GIVE THEM SPACE TO
IT WOULD GIVE THEM THE
SECURE BALLOTS.
OPPORTUNITY TO DO ALL THE
IT WOULD GIVE THEM THE
THINGS THAT ASSOCIATED WITH
OPPORTUNITY TO DO ALL THE
ENSURING WE HAVE A FAIR AND
THINGS THAT ASSOCIATED WITH
PROPER ELECTION BECAUSE OUR
ENSURING WE HAVE A FAIR AND
SITUATION IS ONE WHERE WE HAVE
PROPER ELECTION BECAUSE OUR
TO TRY TO BE EFFICIENT AT ALL
SITUATION IS ONE WHERE WE HAVE
TIMES.
TO TRY TO BE EFFICIENT AT ALL
WE WANT TO BE ABLE TO STICK
TIMES.
AROUND THE OPPORTUNITY THAT
WE WANT TO BE ABLE TO STICK
SETTING UP THE ELECTION CENTER
AROUND THE OPPORTUNITY THAT
WOULD GIVE US BETTER FOR WE ARE
SETTING UP THE ELECTION CENTER
ALSO PROPOSING TO ALLOCATE IN
WOULD GIVE US BETTER FOR WE ARE
AS PART OF THE ELECTIONS THAT
ALSO PROPOSING TO ALLOCATE IN
OUR PHYSICAL FOOTPRINT TODAY IS
AS PART OF THE ELECTIONS THAT
IN A LEASED SPACE.
OUR PHYSICAL FOOTPRINT TODAY IS
WE ARE PROPOSING TO MOVE IT
IN A LEASED SPACE.
INTO A CITY OWNED FACILITY.
WE ARE PROPOSING TO MOVE IT
WE'RE ALSO PROPOSING TO CREATE
INTO A CITY OWNED FACILITY.
THE CITY'S FIRST EMERGENCY
WE'RE ALSO PROPOSING TO CREATE
OPERATIONS CENTER.
THE CITY'S FIRST EMERGENCY
HISTORICALLY WHEN WE NEED IT TO
OPERATIONS CENTER.
HAVE ANY LC GRACELESSLY, THE
HISTORICALLY WHEN WE NEED IT TO
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN HAS
HAVE ANY LC GRACELESSLY, THE
ALLOWED US TO USE THEIR
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN HAS
FACILITY BUT WE ARE A LARGE
ALLOWED US TO USE THEIR
ENOUGH CITY WHERE WE SHOULD
FACILITY BUT WE ARE A LARGE
HAVE OUR OWN FACILITY.
ENOUGH CITY WHERE WE SHOULD
IF YOU THINK JUST ABOUT THIS
HAVE OUR OWN FACILITY.
CURRENT CALENDAR YEAR THERE
IF YOU THINK JUST ABOUT THIS
WERE THREE OCCURRENCES WHERE WE
CURRENT CALENDAR YEAR THERE
WOULD HAVE ACTIVATED IN ELC IF
WERE THREE OCCURRENCES WHERE WE
WE HAD ONE.
WOULD HAVE ACTIVATED IN ELC IF
THE VISIT BY THE VICE PRESIDENT
WE HAD ONE.
THE ICE STORM AND THE
THE VISIT BY THE VICE PRESIDENT
SUBSEQUENT SNOWSTORM ALL
THE ICE STORM AND THE
OF THOSE WOULD HAVE MERIT THE
SUBSEQUENT SNOWSTORM ALL
KIND OF ATTENTION THAT THE ELC
OF THOSE WOULD HAVE MERIT THE
WOULD BRING.
KIND OF ATTENTION THAT THE ELC
WE WOULD INTEND TO PURSUE STATE
WOULD BRING.
AND FEDERAL FUNDING TO EQUIP
WE WOULD INTEND TO PURSUE STATE
AND SET UP THE ELC NOT TO USE
AND FEDERAL FUNDING TO EQUIP
GENERAL FUND DOLLARS IF AT ALL
AND SET UP THE ELC NOT TO USE
POSSIBLE IN ORDER TO ESTABLISH
GENERAL FUND DOLLARS IF AT ALL
THE ELECTION CENTER.
POSSIBLE IN ORDER TO ESTABLISH
THIS WILL BE A REAL ESTATE
THE ELECTION CENTER.
TRANSACTION ARE VERY LIKELY TO
THIS WILL BE A REAL ESTATE
BE SEVEN FIGURES.
TRANSACTION ARE VERY LIKELY TO
IN ADDITION, IT WOULD COST SOME
BE SEVEN FIGURES.
THREE HUNDRED THOUSAND PLUS
IN ADDITION, IT WOULD COST SOME
ANNUALLY TO OPERATE THE
THREE HUNDRED THOUSAND PLUS
FACILITY SO THE IMAGE THAT YOU
ANNUALLY TO OPERATE THE
SEE ON THE SCREEN IS GENERIC
FACILITY SO THE IMAGE THAT YOU
BECAUSE WE DON'T YET HAVE A
SEE ON THE SCREEN IS GENERIC
FACILITY TO PUT A TRANSACTION
BECAUSE WE DON'T YET HAVE A
IN FRONT OF YOU.
FACILITY TO PUT A TRANSACTION
WE ARE WORKING ON THAT AND TO
IN FRONT OF YOU.
ADDRESS ALONG THE LINES THAT WE
WE ARE WORKING ON THAT AND TO
EXPERIENCED ON ELECTION DAY,
ADDRESS ALONG THE LINES THAT WE
THE OFFICE OF THE CLERK IS
EXPERIENCED ON ELECTION DAY,
PROPOSING TO HAVE NINE DAYS
THE OFFICE OF THE CLERK IS
OF EARLY VOTING.
PROPOSING TO HAVE NINE DAYS
THE CLERK'S OFFICE IS WORKING
OF EARLY VOTING.
IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE
THE CLERK'S OFFICE IS WORKING
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AND
IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE
OTHERS TO SET THAT UP.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AND
AND ONE OF THE CHALLENGES THAT
OTHERS TO SET THAT UP.
MISS VOTER WILL FACE IS HOW TO
AND ONE OF THE CHALLENGES THAT
CONVINCE YOUNG PEOPLE TO
MISS VOTER WILL FACE IS HOW TO
ACTUALLY VOTE EARLY INSTEAD
CONVINCE YOUNG PEOPLE TO
OF WAITING TO PARTY IN THE LINE
ACTUALLY VOTE EARLY INSTEAD
ON ELECTION DAY.
OF WAITING TO PARTY IN THE LINE
SO GOOD LUCK WITH THAT, JACKIE
ON ELECTION DAY.
.
SO GOOD LUCK WITH THAT, JACKIE
BUT WE DO WANT TO DO THIS TO
.
TRY TO ADDRESS THE EXPERIENCE
BUT WE DO WANT TO DO THIS TO
THAT WE'VE HAD.
TRY TO ADDRESS THE EXPERIENCE
WE THEN PIVOT INTO
THAT WE'VE HAD.
SUSTAINABILITY.
WE THEN PIVOT INTO
JULY ONE WILL MARK THE
SUSTAINABILITY.
BEGINNING OF OUR COLLECTION
JULY ONE WILL MARK THE
OF THE COMMUNITY CLIMATE
BEGINNING OF OUR COLLECTION
ACTION.
OF THE COMMUNITY CLIMATE
MILLICH SEVEN MILLION IS WHAT
ACTION.
WE PROPOSE TO COLLECT AND THE
MILLICH SEVEN MILLION IS WHAT
STAFF UNDER DR. SCOTERS
WE PROPOSE TO COLLECT AND THE
LEADERSHIP WILL BE WORKING ON
STAFF UNDER DR. SCOTERS
EXPANDING SOLAR DISTRIBUTION
LEADERSHIP WILL BE WORKING ON
FURTHER WEATHERIZATION
EXPANDING SOLAR DISTRIBUTION
OF HOUSES AND NEIGHBORHOODS
FURTHER WEATHERIZATION
THEY EXPANSION OF EV CHARGING
OF HOUSES AND NEIGHBORHOODS
STATIONS AROUND THE COMMUNITY
THEY EXPANSION OF EV CHARGING
CONTINUE TO STUDY GEOTHERMAL.
STATIONS AROUND THE COMMUNITY
SHE PROPOSES.
CONTINUE TO STUDY GEOTHERMAL.
AND WHAT'S IN THE BUDGET IS TO
SHE PROPOSES.
ADD SEVEN POSITIONS THAT WILL
AND WHAT'S IN THE BUDGET IS TO
BE FUNDED BY THE MOULAGE IN
ADD SEVEN POSITIONS THAT WILL
ORDER TO CARRY OUT THIS WORK WE
BE FUNDED BY THE MOULAGE IN
THEN PIVOT INTO THE
ORDER TO CARRY OUT THIS WORK WE
NEIGHBORHOODS.
THEN PIVOT INTO THE
THIS IS THE FIRST SEASON WHEN
NEIGHBORHOODS.
THE BOND INITIATIVE IS ACTUALLY
THIS IS THE FIRST SEASON WHEN
IN FULL SWING SO THE LOCAL
THE BOND INITIATIVE IS ACTUALLY
STREETS YOU SEE ON THE SCREEN
IN FULL SWING SO THE LOCAL
OLIVIA POPE TOOTER WINSTEAD AND
STREETS YOU SEE ON THE SCREEN
MORE AND MORE WILL BE
OLIVIA POPE TOOTER WINSTEAD AND
COVERED UNDER THIS YEAR'S
MORE AND MORE WILL BE
ITERATION OF THE ROAD BOND
COVERED UNDER THIS YEAR'S
PROGRAM.
ITERATION OF THE ROAD BOND
ADDITIONALLY, WE HAVE MAJOR
PROGRAM.
STREET RESURFACING THAT WILL
ADDITIONALLY, WE HAVE MAJOR
ALSO BE COVERED BY THE BOND S
STREET RESURFACING THAT WILL
STATE OF MAINE ART RESEARCH
ALSO BE COVERED BY THE BOND S
PARK DRIVE ARE ALL EXAMPLES
STATE OF MAINE ART RESEARCH
OF MAJOR STREETS THAT WILL BE
PARK DRIVE ARE ALL EXAMPLES
RESURFACED UNDER THIS PROGRAM.
OF MAJOR STREETS THAT WILL BE
WE ACKNOWLEDGE THAT AS A
RESURFACED UNDER THIS PROGRAM.
COMMUNITY WE ARE GOING TO GO
WE ACKNOWLEDGE THAT AS A
THROUGH MAJOR INCONVENIENCE.
COMMUNITY WE ARE GOING TO GO
YOU CANNOT DO ACCELERATED
THROUGH MAJOR INCONVENIENCE.
STREET PAVING AT THE RATE WE
YOU CANNOT DO ACCELERATED
ARE PROPOSING TO DO IT WITHOUT
STREET PAVING AT THE RATE WE
INCONVENIENCE BUT OUR MINDSET
ARE PROPOSING TO DO IT WITHOUT
IS PROGRESSING THROUGH
INCONVENIENCE BUT OUR MINDSET
INCONVENIENCE BECAUSE ON THE
IS PROGRESSING THROUGH
BACK END WE WILL HAVE A MUCH
INCONVENIENCE BECAUSE ON THE
BETTER COMMUNITY.
BACK END WE WILL HAVE A MUCH
IN ADDITION TO THE TWO SLIDES
BETTER COMMUNITY.
I'VE SHOWN YOU, WE ALSO HAVE
IN ADDITION TO THE TWO SLIDES
LOCAL RESURFACING THAT WILL
I'VE SHOWN YOU, WE ALSO HAVE
HAPPEN.
LOCAL RESURFACING THAT WILL
THIS DOES NOT USE OUR ROAD BOND
HAPPEN.
FUNDS AND THAT INCLUDES
THIS DOES NOT USE OUR ROAD BOND
ABERDEEN BELLFIELD, AVON ROAD
FUNDS AND THAT INCLUDES
AND BEPART ROAD PAVING PAVING
ABERDEEN BELLFIELD, AVON ROAD
PAVING A LOT OF THAT GOING ON
AND BEPART ROAD PAVING PAVING
BUT THAT IS WHAT WE PROMISED.
PAVING A LOT OF THAT GOING ON
THAT'S WHAT WE HOPE TO DELIVER
BUT THAT IS WHAT WE PROMISED.
.
THAT'S WHAT WE HOPE TO DELIVER
FOR THE PAST SEVERAL YEARS OUR
.
COMMUNITY HAS STRUGGLED WITH
FOR THE PAST SEVERAL YEARS OUR
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT ISSUES
COMMUNITY HAS STRUGGLED WITH
AROUND THE CITY OF THE PICTURE.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT ISSUES
AT THE TOP OF THE SCREEN IS A
AROUND THE CITY OF THE PICTURE.
LOCAL PICTURE OF WHAT PEOPLE
AT THE TOP OF THE SCREEN IS A
EXPERIENCE THAT DEAL WITH
LOCAL PICTURE OF WHAT PEOPLE
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
EXPERIENCE THAT DEAL WITH
THIS BUDGET INVEST TWO HUNDRED
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS TO
THIS BUDGET INVEST TWO HUNDRED
CONDUCT DRAINAGE STUDIES
FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS TO
DRAINAGE STUDIES ACROSS 13
CONDUCT DRAINAGE STUDIES
MILES TO ALLOW US TO GET A
DRAINAGE STUDIES ACROSS 13
BETTER HANDLE ON THE CAUSE AND
MILES TO ALLOW US TO GET A
POTENTIAL SOLUTIONS FOR PEOPLE
BETTER HANDLE ON THE CAUSE AND
WHO HAVE BEEN EXPERIENCING THIS
POTENTIAL SOLUTIONS FOR PEOPLE
SITUATION.
WHO HAVE BEEN EXPERIENCING THIS
WE OWE IT TO THE COMMUNITY TO
SITUATION.
FIND A WAY TO RESOLVE THIS
WE OWE IT TO THE COMMUNITY TO
ISSUE AND THE STUDIES WILL
FIND A WAY TO RESOLVE THIS
ENABLE US TO DO THAT.
ISSUE AND THE STUDIES WILL
IN ADDITION, WE ARE UNDERTAKING
ENABLE US TO DO THAT.
A SOLID WASTE PROGRAM REVIEW SO
IN ADDITION, WE ARE UNDERTAKING
SORT OF RHETORICALLY WHAT DOES
A SOLID WASTE PROGRAM REVIEW SO
BETTER LOOK LIKE.
SORT OF RHETORICALLY WHAT DOES
SO WHEN YOU LOOK AT WASTE
BETTER LOOK LIKE.
COLLECTION AND RECYCLING,
SO WHEN YOU LOOK AT WASTE
COMMERCIAL COMPOSTING, OVERSIZE
COLLECTION AND RECYCLING,
MATERIALS COLLECTION WE ARE
COMMERCIAL COMPOSTING, OVERSIZE
TRYING TO FIND A WAY TO DELIVER
MATERIALS COLLECTION WE ARE
OUR SERVICE IN A BETTER WAY.
TRYING TO FIND A WAY TO DELIVER
WE ARE TRYING TO BE A FACTOR IN
OUR SERVICE IN A BETTER WAY.
HELPING OUR CITY TO BECOME
WE ARE TRYING TO BE A FACTOR IN
CLEANER.
HELPING OUR CITY TO BECOME
THIS IS ALSO AN ISSUE THAT HAS
CLEANER.
BEEN RAISED RELATIVE TO
THIS IS ALSO AN ISSUE THAT HAS
DOWNTOWN ANN ARBOR.
BEEN RAISED RELATIVE TO
IT IS NOT SOLELY THE CITY'S
DOWNTOWN ANN ARBOR.
ROLE TO ADDRESS THIS BUT WE DO
IT IS NOT SOLELY THE CITY'S
HAVE A PART TO PLAY AND BY
ROLE TO ADDRESS THIS BUT WE DO
LOOKING AT OUR PROGRAM SERVICE
HAVE A PART TO PLAY AND BY
DELIVERY TO FIND BETTER WAYS TO
LOOKING AT OUR PROGRAM SERVICE
DO IT WE HOPE TO BE A
DELIVERY TO FIND BETTER WAYS TO
SIGNIFICANT FACTOR IN SHOWING
DO IT WE HOPE TO BE A
THE IMPROVEMENT AND NOW WE TURN
SIGNIFICANT FACTOR IN SHOWING
TO ISSUES OF PUBLIC INTEREST.
THE IMPROVEMENT AND NOW WE TURN
FIRST OUT OF THE GATE IS A TREE
TO ISSUES OF PUBLIC INTEREST.
LINE TRAIL THE TREE LINE IS A
FIRST OUT OF THE GATE IS A TREE
LONG TERM PROJECT BY ALL
LINE TRAIL THE TREE LINE IS A
ACCOUNTS IT WILL TAKE MORE THAN
LONG TERM PROJECT BY ALL
A DECADE TO ACTUALLY BUILD
ACCOUNTS IT WILL TAKE MORE THAN
DOUBTS THAT WE HAVE THAT
A DECADE TO ACTUALLY BUILD
SUCCESS.
DOUBTS THAT WE HAVE THAT
WE ARE CONTINUING OUR
SUCCESS.
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE TREE LAND
WE ARE CONTINUING OUR
CONSERVANCY.
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE TREE LAND
WE PLACED AN INVESTMENT IN THE
CONSERVANCY.
BUDGET TO HIRE CONSULTATIVELY
WE PLACED AN INVESTMENT IN THE
TO WORK WITH THE CONSERVANCY ON
BUDGET TO HIRE CONSULTATIVELY
THE PROJECT.
TO WORK WITH THE CONSERVANCY ON
HOWEVER, THE PROJECT HAS NOT
THE PROJECT.
YET MATURE TO A POINT WHERE IT
HOWEVER, THE PROJECT HAS NOT
WOULD WARRANT HIRING A FULL
YET MATURE TO A POINT WHERE IT
TIME FTE THAT WOULD WORK ALL
WOULD WARRANT HIRING A FULL
DAY EVERY DAY ARE NOTHING BUT
TIME FTE THAT WOULD WORK ALL
TREE LINE WHEN THE PROJECT GETS
DAY EVERY DAY ARE NOTHING BUT
TO THAT POINT I WOULD BE
TREE LINE WHEN THE PROJECT GETS
SUPPORTIVE OF THE FTE BUT IT'S
TO THAT POINT I WOULD BE
NOT YET RIPE.
SUPPORTIVE OF THE FTE BUT IT'S
OUR STAFF IS WORKING WITH THE
NOT YET RIPE.
TREE LINE CONSERVANCY'S OWN
OUR STAFF IS WORKING WITH THE
LOBBYIST AND OUR LOBBYING FIRM
TREE LINE CONSERVANCY'S OWN
TO PURSUE STATE FEDERAL
LOBBYIST AND OUR LOBBYING FIRM
RESOURCES TO ADVANCE THE
TO PURSUE STATE FEDERAL
PROJECT STILL ON ISSUES
RESOURCES TO ADVANCE THE
OF PUBLIC INTEREST, THE
PROJECT STILL ON ISSUES
RESPONSE LAST YEAR WHEN THE
OF PUBLIC INTEREST, THE
BUDGET WAS PASSED AND
RESPONSE LAST YEAR WHEN THE
SUBSEQUENT TO THAT CITY COUNCIL
BUDGET WAS PASSED AND
APPROPRIATED THREE AND A HALF
SUBSEQUENT TO THAT CITY COUNCIL
MILLION DOLLARS OF FUNDING TO
APPROPRIATED THREE AND A HALF
PROVIDE THE SEED MONEY
MILLION DOLLARS OF FUNDING TO
NECESSARY TO GET THE PROGRAM
PROVIDE THE SEED MONEY
SET UP IN LAST YEAR'S BUDGET WE
NECESSARY TO GET THE PROGRAM
SET ASIDE ADD UP THE MARIJUANA
SET UP IN LAST YEAR'S BUDGET WE
EXCISE TAX TWO HUNDRED AND
SET ASIDE ADD UP THE MARIJUANA
FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS TO
EXCISE TAX TWO HUNDRED AND
SUPPORT THE INITIAL INVESTMENT
FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS TO
IN THIS BUDGET WE'RE PROPOSING
SUPPORT THE INITIAL INVESTMENT
TO TAKE TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY
IN THIS BUDGET WE'RE PROPOSING
THOUSAND THIS YEAR AND NEXT
TO TAKE TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY
YEAR TO CONTINUE TO PROVIDE THE
THOUSAND THIS YEAR AND NEXT
NECESSARY CUSHION FOR THAT
YEAR TO CONTINUE TO PROVIDE THE
PROGRAM TO HAVE A VERY SOLID
NECESSARY CUSHION FOR THAT
BEGINNING IN OPERATING WE NEED
PROGRAM TO HAVE A VERY SOLID
TO ACTUALLY SEE TWELVE FOUR
BEGINNING IN OPERATING WE NEED
MONTHS OF THE PROGRAM WORKING
TO DETERMINE WHAT IT ACTUALLY
COST TO DO A SINGLE YEAR AND
WHAT I SEE HOW MUCH IT COST TO
DO A YEAR THEN THAT WOULD
INFORM WHETHER WE BUMP THAT
NUMBER UP OR LOOK FOR ANOTHER
SOURCE.
THERE'S PROBABLY GRANT DOLLARS
OUT THERE THAT WE CAN ALSO
PURSUE THAT SINCE WE ARE
AGGRESSIVE ABOUT GRANTS IN ANN
ARBOR IT IS SOMETHING WE WOULD
CERTAINLY LOOK AT WHICH THEN
BRINGS US TO ONE TWENTY ONE IS
CATHERINE STREET STILL WITHIN
THE FOCUS OF ISSUES OF PUBLIC
INTEREST ON THE SCREEN YOU SEE
THE RENDERING SUPPLIED BY THE
HOUSING COMMISSION.
THIS IS A HOUSING COMMISSION
PROJECT THAT IS MUCH MORE THAN
JUST BUILDING ONE TWENTY ONE IS
CATHERINE IS IT AN AREA OF THE
CITY THAT HISTORICALLY WAS
PREDOMINANTLY AFRICAN-AMERICAN
AND THE DESIGN FOR THIS PROJECT
ASIDE FROM THE SIXTY THREE
APARTMENT UNITS WAS TO TAKE
TWENTY THREE HUNDRED SQUARE
FEET OF SPACE ON THE FIRST
FLOOR AND TURN IT INTO A
CULTURAL AND ENTREPRENEURIAL
CENTER AIMED AT RECLAIMING OUR
HISTORY.
THE ONLY PROBLEM IS THAT WAS NO
MONEY TO BUILD OUT THE SPACE SO
THIS BUDGET TAKES THREE HUNDRED
TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS
FROM THE MARIJUANA EXCISE TO
EXCISE TAX TO DESIGN AND BUILD
OUT THE SPACE AN ADDITIONAL ONE
FIFTY FOR CAPACITY BUILDING FOR
THE NEIGHBORHOOD BASED
ORGANIZATION THAT IS NEEDED TO
INFLUENCE AND INFORM WHAT
HAPPENS THERE.
IT WOULD BE NOT IN OUR BEST
INTEREST TO CONSTRUCT A
BUILDING HAVE TWENTY THREE
HUNDRED SQUARE FEET OF SPACE ON
THE GROUND FLOOR SAY IT IS
THERE TO CONNECT WITH THE
PEOPLE WHOSE NEIGHBORHOOD IT
ONCE WAS AND HAVE IT BE EMPTY.
SO WE WANT TO ADDRESS THAT AS
PART OF THE CONSTRUCTION.
FINALLY UNDER ISSUES OF PUBLIC
INTEREST WE NEED TO HAVE A
SOLID WORKFORCE.
OUR WORKFORCE IS TOO.
THEN WE HAVE JUST NORTH OF 800
PEOPLE.
THE NEEDS AND DEMANDS FOR
SERVICE FROM THE STAFF
CONTINUES TO GROW.
WE HAVE HAD A SITUATION WHERE
SEVERAL OF OUR CLASSIFICATIONS
ARE SIMPLY NOT MARKET
COMPETITIVE.
GOOD EMPLOYEES HAVE LEFT HERE
AND GONE TO WORK FOR OTHER
MUNICIPAL ORGANIZATIONS BECAUSE
OF MONEY.
THERE HAVE BEEN GOOD CANDIDATES
THAT WE HAVE TRIED TO HIRE WHO
HAVE CHOSEN NOT TO COME HERE
BECAUSE OF SALARIES NOT
COMPETITIVE.
WE ARE INVESTING A HUNDRED AND
FIFTY THOUSAND IN THIS BUDGET
TO CONDUCT A COMPENSATION
STUDY.
OUR APPROACH IN THE PAST HAS
BEEN A TENDER JUST CALL IT A
SERIES OF ONE OFFS.
WE FIND A PROBLEM OVER HERE AND
WE GO TO TRY AND FIX IT.
WE FIND AN EQUITY PROBLEM OVER
THERE AND WE GO AND TRY AND FIX
IT.
WE NEED TO HAVE A GLOBAL
UNDERSTANDING OF WHERE THE
SPECIFIC POSITIONS THAT ARE NOT
MARKET COMPETITIVE AND WHAT
WILL IT TAKE TO FIX THEM THEN
WE CAN DEVISE A STRATEGY THAT
ACTUALLY MOVE THE NEEDLE AND
THAT IS WHAT WE ARE PROPOSING
TO DO WITH THE ONE FIFTY
INVESTMENT.
THIS PROJECT IS ADDING TWENTY
SEVEN POSITIONS TOTAL.
THOSE ARE DETAILED IN YOUR
BUDGET DICTIONARY BUT THE
MAJORITY OF THEM ARE NOT GOING
TO BE FUNDED OUT OF THE GENERAL
FUND SEVEN COMING OUT OF THE
MILLAGE ARE NINE POSITIONS FOR
THE HOUSING COMMISSION.
A CHILD IS GETTING A DEPUTY
DIRECTOR.
THERE'S A FEW SPRINKLED HERE
AND THERE AND THEN WE PIVOT TO
IMPROVING THE CUSTOMER
EXPERIENCE WHICH IS BROADER
THAN JUST CUSTOMER SERVICE.
I'VE TALKED TO YOU BEFORE ABOUT
OUR NEED TO ELEVATE OUR
CUSTOMER SERVICE ACROSS THE
ORGANIZATION.
WE HAVE GREAT EXAMPLES
OF CUSTOMER SERVICE EVERY
SINGLE DAY WITHIN THE
ORGANIZATION.
OUR ISSUE IS THAT WE ARE NOT
ALWAYS CONSISTENT IN HOW THAT
SERVICE DELIVERY HAPPENS.
THIS BUDGET INVESTS FIFTY
THOUSAND DOLLARS TO HELP US GET
A CONSULTANT TO DEVELOP
CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS,
DEVELOP TRAINING THAT WE CAN
USE FOR STAFF TO HELP US BE A
BETTER ORGANIZATION ACROSS THE
BOARD.
THAT'S ONE ELEMENT OF THE
CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE.
THE CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE ALSO
INCLUDES THE 15TH DISTRICT
COURT.
THEY HAVE A COURTROOM RECORDING
SYSTEM THAT IS CLEARLY ON THE
WAY OUT.
I HAD A CONVERSATION WITH THE
CHIEF JUDGE.
SHE TOLD ME THAT THE COMPANY
THAT THEY BOUGHT THE SYSTEM
FROM NO LONGER EXIST WHEN THEY
NEED TO GET PARTS TO TRY TO
REPAIR A SYSTEM, THEY LITERALLY
HAVE TO GO ON EBAY TO TRY TO
FIND THEM.
THAT'S WHY I PUT THAT ON THE
SCREEN.
WE CAN DO BETTER SOLVE THIS
BUDGET, INVEST TWO HUNDRED AND
SIXTY THOUSAND DOLLARS TO
REPLACE THAT SYSTEM.
THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THE
COURTROOM RECORDING SYSTEM THEY
HAVE A REQUIREMENT TO PRODUCE
TRANSCRIPTS FROM EVERY SINGLE
COURT PROCEEDING IF THE
RECORDING SYSTEM FAILS THEY
CAN'T DO THAT.
IT'S NOT A POSITION THAT WE CAN
AFFORD TO BE IN AND THEN THAT
BRINGS US TO SUPPORTIVE
CONNECTIONS.
A PROGRAM THAT YOU CREATED WITH
THE LAST BUDGET.
ONE OF THE OVERARCHING GOALS
OF THE PROGRAM IS TO HELP
PEOPLE STAY OUT OF THE JUDICIAL
SYSTEM.
YET WE ASK THEM TO COME INTO
THE JUSTICE CENTER IN ORDER TO
ACCESS THE SERVICES OR A
PROVISION THAT WE'RE TRYING TO
KEEP THEM OUT OF .
AND IF YOU LOOK AT THE PICTURE
ON THE RIGHT, YOU SEE THAT THE
EXPERIENCE THAT SOMEONE HAS
GOING INTO THE OFFICE WHERE
THEY MAY BE NEEDING TO IMPART
VERY SENSITIVE PERSONAL
INFORMATION IS REALLY NOT
CONDUCIVE BETWEEN THE BOXES AND
THE CRAMPED SPACE.
IT'S SIMPLY NOT UP TO PAR.
SO WITH THIS BUDGET WE ARE
PROPOSING TO TAKE A PORTION
OF THE ONE TIME OPIOID
SETTLEMENT MONEY, DO A
CONSTRUCTION PROJECT IN THE
FORMER TASTEE GREEN RESTAURANT
SPACE AND MOVE SUPPORTIVE
CONNECTIONS FROM THE FOURTH
FLOOR OF THE JUSTICE CENTER AND
TO THE FIRST FLOOR OF CITY HALL
.
I WENT AROUND FOR TASTY GREEN.
I HEARD IT WASN'T WELL
AND THEN
THAT BRINGS US TO COUNCIL
CHAMBERS.
THE TECHNOLOGY IN THIS ROOM IS
DATED.
WE ARE PROPOSING AN OVERHAUL
OF COUNCIL CHAMBERS.
WE NEED TO UPGRADE THE
TECHNOLOGY WHICH INCLUDES THE
MICROPHONES.
THIS PODIUM SET UP THE
PLACEMENT OF MONITORS THE SIZE
OF THE MONITORS.
ALL OF THAT NEEDS TO BE
UPGRADED THE LIGHTING WE WANT
TO PUT A MURAL IN THE CEILING.
WE WANT TO HAVE A
STANDARDIZATION OF THE DAIS
THINGS TODAY WE DO NOT HAVE IT
IS PART OF THE CUSTOMER
EXPERIENCE AND WHEN YOU THINK
BACK TO WHERE I STARTED THIS
BUT IT IS INTENTIONAL ABOUT
POSITIONING FOR A LONG TERM
IMPACT.
THIS IS A LONG TERM DECISION
THAT WE ARE PROPOSING TO DO NOW
WHICH THEN BRINGS US TO THE
DOWNTOWN COMMITMENT THIS HAS
BEEN SOMETHING I'VE BEEN
CHAMPIONING MY ENTIRE TIME HERE
.
WE'VE BEEN ENGAGING WITH
STAKEHOLDERS.
WE'VE BEEN LISTENING.
WE'VE BEEN WORKING WITH THEM.
THE NUMBER ONE THING THAT THEY
SAID THROUGH OUR SESSIONS AND
THROUGH SURVEYS IS WE NEED TO
ADDRESS THE ISSUE OF PUBLIC
RESTROOMS AND SO I FORMED A
PUBLIC RESTROOM WORK GROUP.
I GOT TO SAY, MR. MAYOR, WHAT I
TOLD MY GRANDDAUGHTER I WAS
DOING THAT SHE THOUGHT I WAS
KIDDING GRAIN WHAT KIND OF JOB
DO YOU REALLY HAVE?
SO WE'VE HAD PEOPLE FROM
VARIOUS CITY DEPARTMENTS DED
DESTINATION ANN ARBOR.
WE'VE BEEN MEETING FOR MONTHS.
WE'VE BEEN TALKING WITH ELECTED
OFFICIALS.
WE'VE BEEN TALKING WITH
APPOINTED OFFICIALS.
WE'VE BEEN STUDYING RESTROOM
MODELS.
WE'VE BEEN LOOKING AT RESTROOMS
ACROSS THE UNITED STATES.
OVERSEAS.
WE'VE BEEN LOOKING AT RESTROOMS
OUR MANDATE IS THAT ANY
OVERSEAS.
RESTROOM THAT GOES IN DOWNTOWN
OUR MANDATE IS THAT ANY
ANN ARBOR MUST BE EIGHTY EIGHT
RESTROOM THAT GOES IN DOWNTOWN
ACCESSIBLE.
ANN ARBOR MUST BE EIGHTY EIGHT
AND SO AS A RESULT OF THAT WORK
ACCESSIBLE.
WE HAVE SETTLED ON THE THRONE
AND SO AS A RESULT OF THAT WORK
AS THE MODEL THAT MOST FITS ANN
WE HAVE SETTLED ON THE THRONE
ARBOR.
AS THE MODEL THAT MOST FITS ANN
IT WOULDN'T LOOK LIKE
WHAT YOU
SEE ON THE SCREEN BECAUSE YOU
CAN CHANGE THE EXTERIOR SKIN.
BUT WE FOUND A COMPANY OUT
OF DC THAT HAS CREATED AN ALL
A.D.A ACCESSIBLE MODEL.
WE WANT TO USE A TWO HUNDRED
THOUSAND DOLLARS.
IT'S ALREADY BEEN ALLOCATED
FROM ARPA TO DO A PILOT TO MAKE
SURE THAT THE UNIT DOES WHAT
THEY SAY IT WILL DO AND DOING
THIS PROJECT YOU'VE GOT TO LOOK
AT THE INFRASTRUCTURE NEEDS.
YOU'VE GOT TO LOOK AT THE
AMOUNT OF SPACE YOU NEED ON
YOUR ON THE RIGHT AWAY ACCESS
TO ELECTRICITY, THE CLEANING
FUNCTION THE WHOLE NINE YARDS
AS WE GOT DEEPER INTO THE
PROJECT WE FOUND THAT THERE ARE
OTHER INSTITUTIONS OR
ORGANIZATIONS WITHIN THE CITY
THAT ALSO HAVE THAT NEED TRIPLE
A AS AN EXAMPLE, WHERE DO BUS
DRIVERS GO WHEN THEY NEED TO
STOP BECAUSE A LOT OF THE
PRIVATE SECTOR BUSINESSES DO
NOT WANT PEOPLE TO USE THEIR
RESTROOMS UNLESS THEY'RE
ACTUALLY PATRONS.
SO THE DAY IS GOING TO BE
LEADING A PLACEMENT ANALYSIS TO
HELP FIGURE OUT WHERE THEY
SHOULD GO MORE TO COME THE WHO
KNEW STILL WITHIN THE DOWNTOWN
COMMITMENT THERE HAS BEEN
CONCERN EXPRESSED ABOUT SAFETY
AND THIS IS AN AREA WHERE I'M
TALKING TO YOU ABOUT DIRECTION
RATHER THAN DOLLARS THAT I'M
PROPOSING TO ALLOCATE RIGHT NOW
LAST HOLIDAY SEASON WE PUT A
WALKING UNIT IN DOWNTOWN AND IN
BRIARWOOD TO GO AND ENGAGE WITH
BUSINESS OWNERS, TO ENGAGE WITH
PATRONS, TO ENGAGE WITH ANYONE
THAT THEY SAW AT WE NEED TO USE
A BALANCED SOLUTION WHICH MEANS
NOT A POLICE ONLY SOLUTION.
THE DIRECTION THAT I WOULD LIKE
TO GO IN IS TO ESTABLISH A
WALKING UNIT THAT WOULD HAVE
FIRE MTD SUPPORTIVE CONNECTIONS
PERSON AND MEMBERS OF APD.
THEY WOULD WALK TOGETHER.
THEY WOULD WALK TOGETHER TO
BUILD RELATIONSHIPS, TO ADDRESS
ISSUES, TO PROVIDE RESOURCE
INFORMATION FOR THOSE WHO NEED
IT TO ADDRESS PEOPLE WHO MAY BE
HAVING SOME MINOR HEALTH OR
INJURY RELATED SITUATION.
IT WILL TAKE US SOME TIME TO
GET THERE BECAUSE WE DON'T HAVE
A FULL COMPLEMENT WITHIN THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT.
THE FIRE DEPARTMENT WILL NEED
TO ADD TWO POSITIONS IN ORDER
TO DO THIS AND WE NEED TO
FIGURE OUT THE CAPACITY
OF SUPPORTIVE CONNECTIONS TO BE
ABLE TO DO IT.
BUT WE'RE BEING COMPLETELY
TRANSPARENT ABOUT THE DIRECTION
THAT WE WANT TO TAKE.
THAT THEN BRINGS US BACK TO THE
SOLID WASTE STUDY THAT WE WANT
TO DO BECAUSE THERE IS A
DEFINITE LINK BETWEEN CLEAN AND
SAFE AND SO IF WE CAN HELP GET
DOWNTOWN CLEANER WE CAN HELP
WITH THE PRESENCE OF THE
WALKING UNIT.
WE CAN PROVIDE PUBLIC
RESTROOMS.
NOW WE ARE TALKING ABOUT
SOLUTIONS THAT MEAN SOMETHING
AND BRING RESULTS WON'T GET
THERE OVERNIGHT BUT THIS IS THE
DIRECTION THAT WE WANT TO HIT
WHICH BRINGS ME TO A CASE FOR
REVENUE AND THE FINAL SECTION
FOR ME TO PRESENT TO YOU FROM
THE GRAPH YOU SEE THAT WE HAVE
MORE NEEDS AND RESOURCES.
WE ARE NOT UNLIKE ANY OTHER
CITY.
OUR CONCERN IS WHAT CAN ANN
ARBOR DO ABOUT IT?
WE HAVE NEEDS FOR HOUSING AT
ALL LEVELS.
WE HAVE DEFERRED MAINTENANCE
THAT WE'VE BEEN PUTTING UP AND
THE LONGER YOU DEFER THE MORE
EXPENSIVE IT GETS AND WE HAVE
CAPACITY ISSUES WITHIN THE
STAFF.
WE NEED REVENUE IF STATE SHARED
REVENUE IS FLAT, IF THEY'RE
MORE EXCISE TAX RECEIPTS HAVE
LEVELED OFF THE GROWTH IN THE
GENERAL FUND IS SIMPLY NOT
SUFFICIENT TO ADDRESS
EVERYTHING THAT WE NEED.
I'LL SAY THIS CLEARLY I AM NOT
TALKING ABOUT A TAX HIKE.
I'LL SAY IT AGAIN I AM NOT
I AM TALKING ABOUT BEING MORE
TALKING ABOUT A TAX HIKE.
STRATEGIC WITH THE ASSETS THAT
I AM TALKING ABOUT BEING MORE
WE HAVE.
STRATEGIC WITH THE ASSETS THAT
HERE ARE TWO EXAMPLES I WOULD
WE HAVE.
LIKE TO PURSUE THE BUILDING
HERE ARE TWO EXAMPLES I WOULD
OF A MARKET RATE DEVELOPMENT ON
LIKE TO PURSUE THE BUILDING
THE PROMENADE THAT YOU'RE
OF A MARKET RATE DEVELOPMENT ON
LOOKING AT A MARKET RATE
THE PROMENADE THAT YOU'RE
DEVELOPMENT WOULD GENERATE
LOOKING AT A MARKET RATE
REVENUE BACK TO THE CITY.
DEVELOPMENT WOULD GENERATE
WE COULD PUT A DEVELOPMENT
REVENUE BACK TO THE CITY.
THERE AND WALK OUR OWN TALK.
WE COULD PUT A DEVELOPMENT
IT COULD BE ALL ELECTRIC.
THERE AND WALK OUR OWN TALK.
IT COULD BE A MODEL FOR THE
IT COULD BE ALL ELECTRIC.
KIND OF DEVELOPMENT WE ARE
IT COULD BE A MODEL FOR THE
CHALLENGING THE COMMUNITY TO
KIND OF DEVELOPMENT WE ARE
COME UP WITH.
CHALLENGING THE COMMUNITY TO
YOU WOULD SIMPLY CAPTURE THE
COME UP WITH.
REVENUE FROM THAT DEVELOPMENT
YOU WOULD SIMPLY CAPTURE THE
AND THEN REIMAGINE CITY HALL.
REVENUE FROM THAT DEVELOPMENT
WE ARE NEVER GOING BACK TO A
AND THEN REIMAGINE CITY HALL.
TIME WHEN THIS BUILDING IS
WE ARE NEVER GOING BACK TO A
FULL.
TIME WHEN THIS BUILDING IS
IF WE TRIED EMPLOYEES WOULD
FULL.
JUST QUIT.
IF WE TRIED EMPLOYEES WOULD
PEOPLE AREN'T GOING TO WORK OR
JUST QUIT.
THEY HAVE TO SHOW UP EVERY DAY
PEOPLE AREN'T GOING TO WORK OR
IF THEY HAVE A CHOICE AND WE
THEY HAVE TO SHOW UP EVERY DAY
WANT OUR ORGANIZATION TO BE THE
IF THEY HAVE A CHOICE AND WE
EMPLOYER OF CHOICE.
WANT OUR ORGANIZATION TO BE THE
SO BY CAPTURING THE REVENUE
EMPLOYER OF CHOICE.
FROM THAT DEVELOPMENT AND
SO BY CAPTURING THE REVENUE
REIMAGINING THIS BUILDING, WHO
FROM THAT DEVELOPMENT AND
KNOWS WHERE THAT COULD LEAD US
REIMAGINING THIS BUILDING, WHO
?
KNOWS WHERE THAT COULD LEAD US
I ALSO WANT TO PURSUE TAKING
?
WHAT WE CALL THE CLINE LOT
I ALSO WANT TO PURSUE TAKING
WHICH WAS ASSESSED AT 19
WHAT WE CALL THE CLINE LOT
MILLION DOLLARS SOME YEARS AGO
WHICH WAS ASSESSED AT 19
AND I WOULD LIKE TO SEE US
MILLION DOLLARS SOME YEARS AGO
PURSUE PUTTING A MARKET
AND I WOULD LIKE TO SEE US
DEVELOPMENT ON IT BECAUSE THEN
PURSUE PUTTING A MARKET
YOU COULD CAPTURE THE REVENUE
DEVELOPMENT ON IT BECAUSE THEN
THAT SPINS OFF FROM THE
YOU COULD CAPTURE THE REVENUE
DEVELOPMENT AND USE IT FOR
THAT SPINS OFF FROM THE
DEFERRED MAINTENANCE OR STAFF
DEVELOPMENT AND USE IT FOR
SUPPORT FOR SERVICE DELIVERY
DEFERRED MAINTENANCE OR STAFF
THAT THE PUBLIC IS DEMANDING
SUPPORT FOR SERVICE DELIVERY
THAT WE GIVE THEM THAT WE
THAT THE PUBLIC IS DEMANDING
STRUGGLE TO DO NOW ADMITTEDLY
THAT WE GIVE THEM THAT WE
THE USE OF THE CAR LOT FOR
STRUGGLE TO DO NOW ADMITTEDLY
MARKET RATE VERSUS AFFORDABLE
THE USE OF THE CAR LOT FOR
MAY GET ME AN INVITE TO
MARKET RATE VERSUS AFFORDABLE
THANKSGIVING DINNER TABLE BUT
MAY GET ME AN INVITE TO
THE SPOT THAT WE ARE IN WE
THANKSGIVING DINNER TABLE BUT
SIMPLY IN MY PROFESSIONAL
THE SPOT THAT WE ARE IN WE
OPINION WHICH IS WHAT YOU WANT
SIMPLY IN MY PROFESSIONAL
ME TO GIVE YOU WE CANNOT AFFORD
OPINION WHICH IS WHAT YOU WANT
TO TAKE ALL OF OUR ASSETS AND
ME TO GIVE YOU WE CANNOT AFFORD
DO ALL THESE DEVELOPMENT DEALS
TO TAKE ALL OF OUR ASSETS AND
WITH PRIVATE SECTOR AND OTHERS
DO ALL THESE DEVELOPMENT DEALS
WHERE THE CITY GETS NO MONEY,
WITH PRIVATE SECTOR AND OTHERS
THE DEVELOPERS NEED SOMETHING.
WHERE THE CITY GETS NO MONEY,
THEY WANT SOMETHING.
THE DEVELOPERS NEED SOMETHING.
AND IF WE'RE DEFERRING ALL
THEY WANT SOMETHING.
OF OUR RETURN FOR 30 YEARS BUT
AND IF WE'RE DEFERRING ALL
WE'RE CASH POOR NOW THE WAY I
OF OUR RETURN FOR 30 YEARS BUT
WAS TRAINED THAT DOES NOT WORK
WE'RE CASH POOR NOW THE WAY I
THINGS TO THINK ABOUT NOTHING
WAS TRAINED THAT DOES NOT WORK
FOR YOU TO VOTE ON JUST
THINGS TO THINK ABOUT NOTHING
DIRECTION.
FOR YOU TO VOTE ON JUST
MY SURPRISE FOR THE EVENING
DIRECTION.
THERE IS ONE MILLION DOLLARS IN
MY SURPRISE FOR THE EVENING
MARIJUANA EXCISE TAX THAT I DID
THERE IS ONE MILLION DOLLARS IN
NOT ALLOCATE.
MARIJUANA EXCISE TAX THAT I DID
IT'S IN THE FUND BALANCE FOR
NOT ALLOCATE.
YOUR CONSIDERATION AS YOUR
IT'S IN THE FUND BALANCE FOR
ADVISER YOU DON'T HAVE TO SPEND
YOUR CONSIDERATION AS YOUR
IT ALL BUT I DO HAVE AN
ADVISER YOU DON'T HAVE TO SPEND
OBLIGATION TO TELL YOU THAT I
IT ALL BUT I DO HAVE AN
LEFT IT POSITIONING FOR A LONG
OBLIGATION TO TELL YOU THAT I
TERM IMPACT.
LEFT IT POSITIONING FOR A LONG
I WANT TO THANK THE FINANCE
TERM IMPACT.
DEPARTMENT, THE STAFF AND THE
I WANT TO THANK THE FINANCE
CITY ADMINISTRATORS OFFICE THE
DEPARTMENT, THE STAFF AND THE
MEN AND WOMEN WHO COMPRISE THE
CITY ADMINISTRATORS OFFICE THE
SERVICE AREAS OF THE
MEN AND WOMEN WHO COMPRISE THE
ORGANIZATION AND I WANT TO
SERVICE AREAS OF THE
THANK YOU FOR GIVING ME THE
ORGANIZATION AND I WANT TO
OPPORTUNITY TO SERVE AS YOUR
THANK YOU FOR GIVING ME THE
CITY ADMINISTRATOR AND ON MAY
OPPORTUNITY TO SERVE AS YOUR
15TH WHEN YOU VOTE YOU DON'T
CITY ADMINISTRATOR AND ON MAY
REALLY HAVE TO CHANGE A THING.
15TH WHEN YOU VOTE YOU DON'T
JUST VOTE YES.
REALLY HAVE TO CHANGE A THING.
OH, THANK YOU, MR. TONY.
JUST VOTE YES.
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMENT
AND GENERAL TIME PUBLIC COMMENT
TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK
TO COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY
ABOUT MATTERS OF MUNICIPAL
INTEREST TO SPEAK OF PUBLIC
COMMENT, GENERAL TIME NEED TO
HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE BY
CONTACTING OUR CITY CLERK SPEAK
AS A PUBLIC COMMENT.
WE HAVE THREE MINUTES IN WHICH
TO SPEAK SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE
ATTENTION TO THE TIME WE CAME
IN WITH ONLY ONE PERSON
SPEAKING AT ANY GIVEN TIME BOTH
HERE AND ONLINE.
YOU DO HAVE THREE MINUTES IN
WHICH TO SPEAK AND YOUR CLERK
WILL NOTIFY YOU EITHER ORALLY
IF YOU ARE ON THE PHONE OR BY
THE PODIUM ONCE YOU'RE AT YOUR
THIRTY SECOND MARK ONCE YOUR
TIME HAS EXPIRED IN BOTH
INSTANCES PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
REMARKS AND SEE THE FLOOR.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS
MICHELLE HUGHES.
MICHELLE HUGHES IS ON.
GO AHEAD.
HI.
THIS NEWS AND I'M EXCITED TO
SEE THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE
PLAN ON THE AGENDA AND I HOPE
THAT IT'S GOING TO RESULT IN A
PLAN THAT GENERATES A LOT
OF HOUSING FOR THE CITY TO HELP
US GET OUT OF OUR AFFORDABLE
HOUSING CRISIS AND I'M REALLY
HAPPY TO SEE IN OUR PROPOSAL
THAT WE ARE SPECIFICALLY TRYING
TO REDRESS THE SEGREGATION IN
THE PAST AND THE SEGREGATION
THAT WE HAVE IN THE PRESENT.
SO I HOPE WE CAN COME UP WITH A
GOOD AND EQUITABLE PLAN FOR A
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN.
ONE THING I WAS A LITTLE
CONCERNED ABOUT IS THAT THEY I
WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT WHEN WE
COLLECT PUBLIC INPUT ABOUT THAT
WE ARE GETTING A REPRESENTATIVE
SAMPLE OF THE NOT JUST THE
PEOPLE WHO LIVE HERE BUT THE
PEOPLE WHO COULD LIVE HERE.
THE I NOTICED IN THE CONTRACT
THAT SAID THAT THE CITY WOULD
BE RESPONSIBLE FOR DOING
RECRUITMENT FOR FOCUS GROUPS
FOR THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE
PLAN AND I WANTED TO MAKE SURE
THAT WE DO THAT IN A WAY THAT
WE'RE NOT JUST GATHERING THE
TYPES OF PEOPLE WHO OFTEN SPEAK
ABOUT THESE TOPICS AND THAT
INCLUDES ME.
LET'S TALK LET'S LET'S MAKE
SURE THAT WE'RE TALKING TO
PEOPLE WHO WE DON'T NORY
HEAR FROM AND PEOPLE WHO DON'T
NECESSARILY EVEN LIVE HERE
RIGHT NOW BUT COULD IF WE HAD A
GOOD COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE
PLAN.
SO I DON'T KNOW YET WHAT THE
CITY'S PLAN IS.
BUT I HOPE THAT IT IS A GOOD
AND EQUITABLE AND
REPRESENTATIVE ONE AND YES.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS RALPH
DICKEY
.
MR. MCKAY, PHONE NUMBER FIVE
FIVE.
HELLO, RALPH KEYES.
HOW WILL THIS WELCOME.
GOOD EVENING TO FORD.
MY FIRST TOPIC IS THE 13TH
WHICH WOULD AUTHORIZE PAYING
THE BATMAN LAW FIRM ANOTHER
HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND
PURSUIT LITIGATION AGAINST
GILMAN SINCE 2006.
BATMAN PAID NINE HUNDRED
THOUSAND GELLMAN AND IN-HOUSE
LAWYERS HAVE SPENT COUNTLESS
HOURS THAT HAS ACCOMPLISHED
VIRTUALLY NOTHING IN PURSUIT
OF STATE LITIGATION ALSO
UNFORTUNATELY RESULTED IN
DELAYING FOR EPA INTERVENTION
BY ALMOST FIVE YEARS APPROVING
MORE FEES IS THROWING GOOD
MONEY AFTER BAD STATE LAW
CURRENTLY HAS NO TEETH.
FURTHER PAGES EIGHT TO ELEVEN
OF THE TWENTY SIX SETTLEMENT
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY AND
GOVERNMENT NEGOTIATED BY BATMAN
BARS MANY TYPES OF CLAIMS THAT
WE MIGHT HAVE AND THEY MIGHT BE
TIME FOR TO YOU SHOULD BE
GETTING A SECOND OPINION.
IT'S NOT APPROPRIATE THAT
APARTMENT BE THE ONLY ONES WHO
STILL BENEFIT FROM GOING
FORWARD BY GETTING PAID EVEN IF
THEY LOSE AND THEY DID A BAD
JOB OF TELLING THE PUBLIC ABOUT
THE INFAMOUS SUPPORT AND THE
SUBSEQUENT CORPORATE PRACTICE.
DO YOU HAVE A DETAILED
EXPLAINING WHY THESE CLAIMS ARE
THE AGENDA DESCRIPTIONS?
A PART OF THE LITIGATION WILL
BE ENFORCING THE 2006
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT.
LET'S TALK ABOUT THAT'S ALLOWED
UNDER THAT AGREEMENT.
WHY COULDN'T THAT BE DONE
MAINLY IN-HOUSE WITH MINIMAL
SUPERVISION FROM IT SEEMS A
RELATIVELY DISCRETE CONTRACTUAL
MATTER RATHER THAN A COMPLEX
ENVIRONMENTAL CASE OVERALL THIS
IS A TERRIBLE WASTE OF MONEY
WHICH MR. DE JUST SAID WE NEED
PRETTY NEXT TOPIC IS THE ONE
WHERE FOOD TRUCKS AT THE
COMPANIES THERE ARE SEVERAL
POSITIONS IN IT WHICH ARE NOT
IMPORTANT FACTS OR MISLEADING
OR JUST WRONG ANY OF THESE ARE
DETAILED IN JULIE RITTER'S
E-MAIL TO YOU YESTERDAY, ALL
OF WHICH I AGREE WITH OUR FOCUS
ON JUST A COUPLE.
THE MEMO EMPHASIZES THE LOSS
OF PARKING REVENUE.
HOWEVER, IT SEEMS THAT THERE
ISN'T ANY LOST REVENUE.
THERE WOULD BE EMPTY SPACES IN
THE UNDERGROUND LOBSTERING FOOD
TRUCK EVENTS AND TYPICALLY ARE
NEXT.
WHY COULDN'T THE FOOD TRUCKS BE
CHARGED THE SAME AMOUNT FOR THE
SPACE THEY TAKE UP NEXT UNDER A
TWENTY EIGHTEEN RESOLUTION
PARKING REVENUE WAS ACTUALLY
SUPPOSED TO BE USED FINANCIALLY
SUPPORT THE COMMENT THAT'S BEEN
IGNORED AND THE USE
OF SANDBLASTER REVENUE AS A
REASON NOT TO ALLOW IT TO BE ON
THE COMMENT IS INSULTING REALLY
PARTICULARLY WHEN THE TWENTY
EIGHTEEN CHARTER AMENDMENT
APPROVED WAS SUPPOSED TO MAKE
THIS ACCOUNT.
OBVIOUSLY THAT CHARTER IS
INCONSISTENT WITH THAT PART
PARK THEIR PERMANENT THIS
STRANGE IMPLICIT ARGUMENT IN
THE MEMO WOULD BLOCK ANY USE
OTHER THAN PARK.
FINALLY THE STATEMENT THAT YOU
NEED TO GET A DETAILED LEGAL
OPINION A COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY
IS OF THE ITEMS BIAS AGAINST
THE COMPANY REALLY WE'VE NEVER
HAD VENDORS ALLOWED TO GET A
PERMIT ON CITY PROPERTY
ASSAULTING ME ON THE STREET
AFTER MY BAND IS SCHEDULED TO
PLAY AT THE CONFERENCE ON
SATURDAY.
DOES THAT VIOLATE THE CHARTER?
SHOULD I WORRY ABOUT PUTTING
OUT A PICTURE I JUST FACETIOUS
PARTIALLY BUT REALLY DO YOU
THINK THAT THE PROP EIGHT
PROPONENTS WHO BY AND LARGE ARE
THE SAME PEOPLE WHO WANT FOOD
TRUCKS ARE GOING TO SUE THE
CITY?
THIS MEMO LOOKS LIKE THE LATEST
ATTEMPT TO STALL STYMIE ANY
ACTIVITY.
>> THE IT'S SHAMEFUL.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ALEX LOWE
,
ALEX LOWE AND ZOOM GO.
>> HI, THIS IS ALEX LOWE
PLAYING IN FROM THE SOUTH
SOUTHEAST STAND UP.
I WANT YOU TO DRIVE SEVERAL
TOPICS TONIGHT.
BEFORE THAT I'D JUST LIKE TO
THANK ADMINISTRATOR JAHANI OR
HIS FANTASTIC BUDGET
PRESENTATION.
FIRST I WANT TO MAKE A QUICK
COMPREHENSIVE LOOK AT THAT AND
SEE A TI I REMEMBER CORRECTLY
I'M GLAD TO SEE PROGRESS
HAPPENING GIVEN HOW MANY OF THE
PUDI REQUESTS WE'VE SEEN THE
PLANNING COMMISSION RECENTLY
HAVE BEEN FOR THINGS THAT
FRANKLY SHOULD BE ALLOWED IN
THE ZONE ALREADY THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SHOULD MAKE
IT HERE CALL CALL FOR
LIBERALIZING ACTIVITY SO THAT
WE DON'T HAVE ALL OF THIS
UNNECESSARY PROCESS AND REQUIRE
THINGS BE THAT BIG SECTORS
RIGHT NOW A LOT MORE THAN AFTER
THAT NINE MONTHS WOULD JUST BE
ILLEGAL TO GET TO BUILD.
SO WE SHOULD CHANGE THAT SO
THAT WE CAN BUILD THE NEXT
GENERATION OF THAT SECOND ABOUT
THE DIOXANE IT'S CLEAR TO EVEN
THE LAY OBSERVER THAT THE
COMPANIES WHO PURCHASED
GOVERNMENT SCIENCE IS USING
EVERY BIT OF PROCEDURAL
TRICKERY AVAILABLE TO DISTANCE
THEMSELVES FROM THIS MESS.
SO THERE'S A BIG SO FAR THE
CITY HAS TAKEN ONLY TENTATIVE
AND TIMID ACTIONS BACKWARDS.
BUT GIVEN THAT THE HEALTH
OF EVERYONE IN THE CITY IS ON
THE LINE HERE, IT'S TIME TO BE
BOLD.
FINALLY THE MEMORANDUM TO
CANCEL ABOUT FOUR TRUCKS AT THE
LIBRARY IN SHORT WAS FOR THAT
REASON THIS IF I UNDERSTAND
CORRECTLY THE COUNCIL OF THE
COMMONS CONTAINS SEVERAL
MEMBERS WHO WERE INVOLVED IN
THE DRAFTING OF PROPOSAL.
YET THE FIRST MEANINGFUL
ATTEMPT THEY'VE MADE TO
ACTIVATE THE SPACES IS LEGALLY
QUESTIONABLE UNDER THE LANGUAGE
OF THAT VERY PROPOSED ACTIVIST
THE CITY COUNCIL OVER FOUR
YEARS AFTER THE PROPOSAL WAS
VOTED ON AND THE WHOLE CENTER
OF THE CITY CLAIMS TO LOOK BACK
HONESTLY A BIT OF A TAX CUT.
I WENT BACK AND WATCHED A FEW
COUNCIL MEETINGS AND I MUST SAY
THE EXPERIENCE AS OPPOSED TO
HOW WE HAVE CONTINUED THIS FOR
SO LONG WHAT A AND SQUANDERING
OF THE CITY'S LIMITED RESOURCES
AT A RECENT MEETING THE TWO
COUNCIL YEARS ON RIGHT.
THEY REMOVE THEMSELVES FROM THE
CALL IN PROTEST OF A BREACH
OF RULES OF ORDER DESIGNED TO
PREVENT A SINGLE COMMISSIONER
FROM MONOPOLIZING AT TIME.
UNFORTUNATELY THAT APPEARS TO
HAVE BEEN THE ONLY CONSEQUENCE
FOR THIS COMMISSION DESPITE THE
NUMEROUS OTHER BREACHES
OF USABILITY.
SO MAYBE IT'S TIME TO RETHINK
PROPOSAL ALTOGETHER IF THIS IS
TRULY THE BEST WE DO.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER DANIEL ADAMS
.
GOOD EVENING DAN ADAMS TEN
SIXTEEN DANIEL ST. THE
COUNCILOR COMMONS WAS
CREATED IN TWENTY TWENTY TO
ADVISE THIS BODY AND HELP PLAN
THE CREATION OF A PUBLIC PARK
IN THE LIBRARY.
WHAT IT'S BECOME IS A
DYSFUNCTIONAL, DEEPLY DIVIDED
BODY THAT'S NEITHER ADVISING
YOU NOR EFFECTIVELY ADVANCING
THAT PROJECT.
THE LATEST EXAMPLE OF THIS ON
YOUR IS ON YOUR AGENDA TONIGHT
.
THAT'S A NINE PAGE MEMO
PREPARED BY THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR REQUESTED BY THE
COUNCIL OF THE COMMONS ON THE
VIABILITY OF PERMITTING FOOD
TRUCKS ON THE LIBRARY ASKING
CITY STAFF TO ANALYZE WHETHER
FOOD TRUCKS ARE VIABLE ON THE
SITE IS TO BE CLEAR A
DESPERATION PLAY.
IT'S THE BEST OPTION OF BAD
OPTIONS TO ACTIVATE A SITE THAT
EVERYONE UNDERSTANDS TO BE
UNDESIRABLE.
THIS IS SOMETHING THEY PROPOSED
BACK IN TWENTY TWENTY ONE AND
TO QUOTE ONE MEMBER THEY JUST
NEEDED A WIN.
THE LOGIC OF USING FOOD TRUCKS
TO DRAW PEOPLE TOGETHER ON AN
UNIMPROVED PARKING LOT HAS IT
EXACTLY BACKWARDS.
THERE ARE A LOT OF REASONS FOR
THAT BUT IT ALSO WON'T WORK A
TEN PARKS ADVISORY COMMISSION
REPORT EXPLAIN TO US AGAIN TEN
YEARS GO WHY THE SITE DOESN'T
HAVE FOOT TRAFFIC.
IT'S BOXED IN ON THREE SIDES
AND IT NEEDS INFRASTRUCTURE TO
FUNCTION PROPERLY AS A PUBLIC
SPACE COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG'S
YOU WILL RECALL ASKING THE
LIBRARY DIRECTOR AT THE COUNCIL
OF THE COMMONS MEETING IN
DECEMBER ABOUT FOOD TRUCKS AND
ACTIVATING THAT SITE WITH THAT
ACTIVITY AND HE RESPONDED THAT
THEY'VE HAD FOOD TRUCKS ON THAT
SITE AND THEY'RE NOT PROFITABLE
.
SO THIS ISN'T A HYPOTHETICAL.
WE'VE TESTED THIS THE FOOD
TRUCKS OUT THERE, THEY'VE HAD
TO SUBSIDIZE THAT ACTIVITY AND
THAT'S THE CONCLUSION REACHED
BY THE ADMINISTRATOR.
BUT THE DYSFUNCTION OF THIS
BODY GOES DEEPER THAN THAT.
THE LAST COUNCIL THE COMMONS
MEETING THE MEMBERS WERE
DISCUSSING A DRAFT DESIGN RFP
THAT ISN'T READY ISSUE DESPITE
TWO SOLID YEARS OF PLANNING,
IT'S BADLY OVERDUE.
IT HASN'T BEEN SOCIALIZED WITH
CITY PARK STAFF AND IT WAS
ATTACKED MOST OF THE MEETING BY
A MEMBER OF THE COUNCIL WHO
SPENT EIGHT PLUS
MINUTE
DIATRIBE ATTACKING IT THAT
SURVIVED INEXPLICABLY MULTIPLE
POINTS OF ORDER BY OTHER
MEMBERS.
THIS COUNCIL HAS OUTLIVED ITS
UTILITY TO THE PUBLIC AND
UNLESS IT'S GIVEN A DEADLINE TO
WRAP ITS WORK UP, IT'S GOING TO
CONTINUE TO FLOUNDER.
IT'S GOING TO BICKER ABOUT THE
TERMS OF THIS RFP THAT IT'S
NEVER GOING TO ISSUE AND THEN
IT'S GOING TO ATTEMPT TO
JUSTIFY ITS OWN EXISTENCE BY
MAKING WORK FOR CITY STAFF,
PASS A RESOLUTION SUSPENDING
THE WORK OF THIS BODY EFFECTIVE
JUNE ONE, GIVE THEM A MONTH
OF RUNWAY TO WRAP UP THEIR
WORK, THEN LET STAFF AND
COUNCIL MEMBERS WHO HAVE BEEN
SUPPORTING THIS ACTIVITY
PATIENTLY FOCUS MORE TIME AND
ACTUALLY MEETING PRESSING
RESIDENT NEEDS.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS TOM
STOLLBERG
.
MR STOLLBERG NUMBER FIVE THREE
FOUR GO AHEAD
.
>> WE WILL TALK DOWN NO I'M
CALLING ABOUT WHAT HE
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT
WITH INTERFACE STUDIO THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLANCHE.
I AM LOOKING FORWARD TO THIS
PROCESS.
I'M SURE MANY YOU ARE AND AS
MANY PEOPLE IN THE COMMUNITY
ARE.
I SEE FROM THE PERSPECTIVE
OF SOMEONE WHO BEEN A REAL
PROFESSIONAL OVER THIRTY YEARS
GLOBALLY AS A DEVELOPER WHO IS
LOOKING TO THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN AND SUBSEQUENT TO ENERGY
FOR FUTURE DEVELOPMENT
PROPERTIES I MY INVESTORS AND
MY CLIENTS ALL ARE
PARTICIPATING IN THE VISION
SUCH AS THE NORTHEAST AREA
OF THE CITY TO THE LOCAL
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN GLOBAL
WARMING CONFERENCE AND VISION
TESTED PROPERTIES THAT I
DEVELOPED THE COMMUNITY I
WITNESSED MANY TIMES THIS YEAR
WE UP A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ALL
THE LEARNING THAT FROM FEW THIS
PROCESS WE ARE ABOUT TO EMBARK
ON THE CITY COUNCIL ER PLANNING
COMMISSION WILL ALL BE BETTER
UNDERSTANDING OF HOW PLANNING
AND ZONING PRINCIPLES TO WORK.
WE HAVEN'T DONE A GREAT JOB
OVER THE PAST SEVERAL YEARS.
THIS IS NOT A COMMODITY.
THE OBSERVATION OF MULTIPLE
CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS THE
COMMISSION HAVEN'T RECEIVED THE
TRAINING PROFESSIONAL GUIDANCE
AND WE AS A CONSTITUENT THIS IS
A NO IT'S AN AREA FEATURES
RATHER THAN ON THE CRITERIA
LAID OUT IN AN ATTORNEY
RECENTLY ASKED ME WHAT I WANT
TO SEE FROM OUR CITY.
MY RESPONSE WAS NOT A LOT
OF INTERACTION, HONESTY,
ADHERENCE TO TRUST AND RESPECT
FOR BOTH THE LETTER AND THE
INTENT OF THE LAW.
WE SHOULD HAVE A NUMBER
OF TIMES OVER THE PAST SEVERAL
YEARS WE SEEM TO PREFER
NARRATIVE TO ESTABLISH POLICY
TO HERE THAT THIS WAS ONLY
INTRODUCED TO OUR UNIFIED HAS
THIS EXTENSIVE EXTENSIVE
REVISION TO THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN WELL BETTER EDUCATED ON
HOW IT SHOULD BE DONE BUT ALSO
I CAN MENTION ALL THE MOST
RECENT OBSERVER REGARDING
DEVELOPMENT ISSUES AND ALSO TO
THE LATER TONIGHT I WILL SPEAK
REGARDING AN APPLICATION FOR
THE CONTAINS MULTIPLE
MISREPRESENTATION THAT DOESN'T
COMPLY MULTIPLE CITY POLICIES
AND THAT CLEARLY VIOLATES THE
INTENT OF THE LAW AND THAT
LIKELY VIOLATES THE LETTER
OF THE LAW ARE GOOD OR BAD.
THE TOOL THE SOME PLANNING
COMMISSION AND CITY MEMBERS AND
THEIR SUPPORTERS IN AREA WITH
ACTIVITIES THAT MERIT IS TIED
TO THE INAPPROPRIATE LOST NINE
MILLION OF A AND MONITISE TIMES
AND A SIMILAR END UP VOTING
WHILE AVOIDING OBLIGATORY
AFFORDABLE HOUSING ON DOWN THE
BLOCK.
I SINCERELY HOPE THAT THE
COMPREHENSIVE RENOVATION
PROCESS IS A SUCCESSFUL
OUTRATING EXCRETE OUR
OFFICEMATE.
>> I LOOK FORWARD TO THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN DOVISHNESS.
THANK YOU.
THANK OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS
SALAH.
>> THAT'S NOT FUNNY.
NO NO.
CHRISTOPHER TAYLOR WANTS US TO
BELIEVE THAT HE LOVES ARABS.
ANYBODY WHO HAS BEEN WATCHING
HIM ACT KNOWS THAT HE HAS HE IS
THE HE HAS MOST HATRED FOR
ARABS IN THIS COMMUNITY.
MEMBER CHRISTOPHER TAYLOR HAS
MORE HATRED FOR ARABS IN THIS
COMMUNITY THAT CAN EVER BE
DESCRIBED FOR THIS CITY COUNCIL
AND CHRISTOPHER TAYLOR TO
PRETEND LIKE ARABS IS LIKE THE
GANGSTER BOSS SENDING FLOWERS
CUT HIS VICTIMS FUNERALS.
MASOUMEH I DON'T RECALL A FEW
MONTHS AGO JAN TWO THOUSAND
TWENTY THREE AND EPS
OF CANONICALLY PROTESTED AND
CHANTED NOT A PENNY, NOT A
DIME.
NO MONEY FOR ISRAEL'S CRIMES.
DO YOU REMEMBER THOSE AT HOME
YOU HAVE DECLARED YOU IN THIS
COMMUNITY HAVE FOR DECADES COME
TO THESE CHAMBERS HAVE CHANTED
STOP ISRAEL.
THEY ARE TALKING US THEY ARE
KILLING US AND YOU MR
CHRISTOPHER TAYLOR HAVE SAID TO
THEM WHAT THE SENSE THAT YOU
HAVE CREATED NOW HAVE THE
SUPPORT IT IS REALLY CRIMES
AGAINST ARABS THOSE ARE KILLING
IN PALESTINE BY THE ARABS AND
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD HAS EXHIBITED
THE MOST OUTRAGEOUS HATRED
TOWARDS ARABS IN THIS
COMMUNITY.
WHEN YOU SAID THAT YOU CARE
ABOUT COMMUNITY ISSUES WHEN
ASKED ABOUT PALESTINIANS YOU
SAID THIS CITY CARES ABOUT THE
COMMUNITY EXCLUDED FROM THIS
TOWN.
MANY SEE MR. MAYOR AND FINANCE
DEVICES NO.
TWO THOUSAND TWENTY ONE ONE
THOUSAND EBB'S LEHMAN BROTHERS.
IT HAS OUTSIDE THIS BUILDING
CHANTING THE SAME HERE
MEMORABILITY EIGHT ISRAEL ON
THE RIGHT SIDE OF THIS
BUILDING, MR MAYOR, THAT YOU
COME TO LOVE HALSTEAD'S THEN
NEXT YEAR AFTER YEAR AND ISRAEL
CONTINUES TO MASSACRE EPP'S THE
PAST WEEKS THEY HAVE KILLED
THEY HAVE TORTURED.
THEY HAVE SEEN PEOPLE IN THE
HOMES THAT SON SAYS AID TO
ISRAEL I WILL MORE THAN MR
MAYOR.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER HENRY
HERSKOVITS
.
>> GOOD EVENING.
LAST OCTOBER I ADDRESSED
COUNCIL ABOUT THE ANN ARBOR
SCHOOLS COMPLIANCE WITH PUBLIC
ONE SEVENTY WHICH MANDATES
TEACHING OF THE HOLOCAUST.
SINCE THEN THE SCHOOL BOARD WAS
KIND ENOUGH TO PROVIDE ME THE
REQUESTED INFORMATION.
I ADDRESSED THE BOARD LAST WEEK
AND HOPED THAT WE WERE MOLDING
ANN ARBOR STUDENTS TO BECOME
INDEPENDENT THINKERS.
I ADDRESSED COUNCIL TONIGHT
WITH THE SAME CONCERN THE
TEXTBOOK USE IN OUR SCHOOLS IS
WORLD HISTORY PATTERNS
OF INTERACTION IN THE SECTION
ON THE HOLOCAUST OUR STUDENT
FIRST READS THE NAZIS PROCLAIM
THAT THE GERMANIC PEOPLES WERE
A QUOTE MASTER RACE END QUOTE.
I THINK WE'RE ALL ACCUSTOMED TO
THAT PHRASE BUT I NOTE THAT
THERE'S NO ATTRIBUTION TO THAT
QUOTE NO REFERENCE WHICH NAZI
LEADER SAID THOSE WORDS?
THERE'S NO WAY FOR THE STUDENT
TO KNOW IF THE STUDENT WERE
EQUIPPED WITH BOOKS THAT
CHALLENGE THAT CLAIM SUCH AS
BENTON BRADBURY'S THE MYTH
OF GERMAN VILLAINY.
HE COULD READ THAT NO NAZI EVER
SAID THOSE WORDS AND IF THE
STUDENT WERE ENCOURAGED TO DO
SO HE COULD DOWNLOAD A COPY
OF MEIN KAMPF BY ADOLF HITLER
AND COULD SCAN FOR A MASTER
RACE.
YOU WON'T FIND IT AND YOU MAY
BE PUZZLED BY THE CLAIM HE MAY
EVEN CONCLUDE THAT MASTER RACE
WAS MERELY WARTIME PROPAGANDA
WHICH ALL SIDES TOOK PART ON
THE SAME PAGE A STUDENT READS
THAT THE BEGINNING OF THE
HOLOCAUST TARGETED JEWS DUE TO
GERMAN FAILURES.
SOME GERMANS EVEN BLAMED JEWS
FOR THEIR COUNTRY'S DEFEAT IN
WORLD WAR ONE AS IF NOTHING
COULD BE FURTHER FROM THE TRUTH
THAT ALISON WEIR'S BOOK AGAINST
OUR BETTER JUDGMENT DOCUMENTS
CLEARLY THAT DURING THAT WAR
WHEN GERMANY WAS ABOUT TO
DEFEAT BRITAIN AND THAT
ACTUALLY OFFERED A NEGOTIATED
PEACE, ZIONIST JEWS ENGAGED IN
A PROCESS OF GETTING THE US
INTO THE WAR ON BRITAIN'S SIDE
PROMINENT AMERICAN JEWS LIKE
LOUIS BRANDEIS AND FELIX
FRANKFURTER WORK BEHIND THE
SCENES TO ACCOMPLISH THIS TASK
AND WERE IN FACT SUCCESSFUL AT
GETTING THE AMERICANS INTO THE
WAR WHICH ENSURED GERMANY'S
DEFEAT.
SO WHAT IS RIDICULED IN THE
TEXT OUR STUDENT READS IS
ACTUALLY THE TRUE HISTORICAL
RECOUNTING OF EVENTS I
ENCOURAGED THE BOARD AS I DO
COUNCIL TONIGHT TO PROVIDE OUR
STUDENT
WITH ENOUGH INFORMATION
TO MAKE UP HIS MIND
INDEPENDENTLY AND CRITICALLY
ABOUT HISTORICAL EVENTS AND
THAT HE BE PROVIDED WITH AN
ARRAY OF VIEWPOINTS NOT JUST
ONE.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ERIC EVENTS
.
ERIC BANA, JOHN THUNE GO AHEAD
HI MY NAME IS ERIC EVANS AND I
.
LIVE IN THE THIRD WAR.
HI MY NAME IS ERIC EVANS AND I
I APPRECIATE THIS OPPORTUNITY
LIVE IN THE THIRD WAR.
TO SPEAK FOR YOU TONIGHT TO
I APPRECIATE THIS OPPORTUNITY
TALK ABOUT THE CENTER OF THE
TO SPEAK FOR YOU TONIGHT TO
CITY.
TALK ABOUT THE CENTER OF THE
IT IS NOW APPROACHING FIVE
CITY.
YEARS SINCE PROPOSAL WAS PASSED
IT IS NOW APPROACHING FIVE
AND THE SAD TRUTH IS THAT WE
YEARS SINCE PROPOSAL WAS PASSED
HAVE VERY LITTLE TO SHOW FOR
AND THE SAD TRUTH IS THAT WE
IT.
HAVE VERY LITTLE TO SHOW FOR
THE REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS IS
IT.
STILL BEING WORKED ON.
THE REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS IS
THIS SPACE HAS STILL NOT BEEN
STILL BEING WORKED ON.
ACTIVATED IN ANY MEANINGFUL
THIS SPACE HAS STILL NOT BEEN
SENSE.
ACTIVATED IN ANY MEANINGFUL
CITY STAFF'S ANALYSIS OF WHAT
SENSE.
IT WOULD TAKE TO ACTIVATE THE
CITY STAFF'S ANALYSIS OF WHAT
SPACE WITH TRUCKS AND MOBILE
IT WOULD TAKE TO ACTIVATE THE
VENDORS IS DAMAGED AND THE
SPACE WITH TRUCKS AND MOBILE
DIRECTOR OF THE DISTRICT
VENDORS IS DAMAGED AND THE
LIBRARY HAS BEEN VERY CLEAR
DIRECTOR OF THE DISTRICT
ABOUT THE INHERENT CHALLENGES
LIBRARY HAS BEEN VERY CLEAR
OF USING THAT SPACE FOR LIBRARY
ABOUT THE INHERENT CHALLENGES
EVENTS IF AND WHEN THE RESULTS
OF USING THAT SPACE FOR LIBRARY
OF THE RFP COME IN.
EVENTS IF AND WHEN THE RESULTS
ANY PROJECT APPROACHING A
OF THE RFP COME IN.
DRAWING SHARED BY PROPOSAL
ANY PROJECT APPROACHING A
SUPPORTERS WILL COME AT A COST
DRAWING SHARED BY PROPOSAL
OF MILLIONS OR MORE LIKELY TENS
SUPPORTERS WILL COME AT A COST
OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS AND
OF MILLIONS OR MORE LIKELY TENS
THERE'S NO SOURCE FOR THAT
OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS AND
FUNDING THE BALLOT PROPOSAL
THERE'S NO SOURCE FOR THAT
INCLUDED NO FUNDING COMPONENT
FUNDING THE BALLOT PROPOSAL
AND WHEN PROPOSAL WAS ON THE
INCLUDED NO FUNDING COMPONENT
BALLOT, KEY SUPPORTERS AND
AND WHEN PROPOSAL WAS ON THE
ORGANIZERS OF THE INITIATIVE
BALLOT, KEY SUPPORTERS AND
ASSURED US CITY TAXPAYER MONEY
ORGANIZERS OF THE INITIATIVE
WOULD NOT BE REQUIRED AND THAT
ASSURED US CITY TAXPAYER MONEY
PRIVATE MONEY WOULD FLOW IN YET
WOULD NOT BE REQUIRED AND THAT
HAS TAKEN US FIVE YEARS TO
PRIVATE MONEY WOULD FLOW IN YET
FINALLY PUT TOGETHER A
HAS TAKEN US FIVE YEARS TO
COMPARATIVELY LITTLE FUNDING
FINALLY PUT TOGETHER A
JUST FOR THE RFP.
COMPARATIVELY LITTLE FUNDING
I AM THEREFORE ASKING CITY
JUST FOR THE RFP.
COUNCIL MEMBERS TO TAKE A HARD
I AM THEREFORE ASKING CITY
HONEST LOOK AT WHERE THE
COUNCIL MEMBERS TO TAKE A HARD
PROJECT CURRENTLY STANDS.
HONEST LOOK AT WHERE THE
IN CONTRAST TO WHAT THE PUBLIC
PROJECT CURRENTLY STANDS.
WAS LED TO BELIEVE AND THE
IN CONTRAST TO WHAT THE PUBLIC
OPPORTUNITY COST OF ALLOWING
WAS LED TO BELIEVE AND THE
THIS PROCESS TO CONTINUE THE
OPPORTUNITY COST OF ALLOWING
PEOPLE OF ANN ARBOR DESERVE
THIS PROCESS TO CONTINUE THE
BETTER IS PAINFUL TO THINK
PEOPLE OF ANN ARBOR DESERVE
OF WHAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN WE
BETTER IS PAINFUL TO THINK
COULD HAVE HAD A MUCH WE COULD
OF WHAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN WE
HAVE HAD MUCH NEEDED HOUSING.
COULD HAVE HAD A MUCH WE COULD
WE COULD HAVE HAD ONE OR TWO
HAVE HAD MUCH NEEDED HOUSING.
FLOORS OF RETAIL BEHIND THE
WE COULD HAVE HAD ONE OR TWO
PLAZA TO CREATE TRAFFIC FLOWING
FLOORS OF RETAIL BEHIND THE
THROUGH IT, MAKING T SPACE A
PLAZA TO CREATE TRAFFIC FLOWING
SPACE WHERE PEOPLE FEEL SAFE
THROUGH IT, MAKING T SPACE A
AND RELAXED.
SPACE WHERE PEOPLE FEEL SAFE
IN OTHER WORDS, WE COULD HAVE
AND RELAXED.
ACTIVATED THAT SPACE.
IN OTHER WORDS, WE COULD HAVE
WE COULD HAVE HAD A PUBLIC
ACTIVATED THAT SPACE.
PLAZA THAT IS PRIVATELY
WE COULD HAVE HAD A PUBLIC
MAINTAINED AND OUR CITY COULD
PLAZA THAT IS PRIVATELY
HAVE HAD REVENUE FROM A ONE
MAINTAINED AND OUR CITY COULD
HUNDRED YEAR LEASE FROM NEW
HAVE HAD REVENUE FROM A ONE
PROPERTY TAXES AND FROM VERSION
HUNDRED YEAR LEASE FROM NEW
OF THE PARKING STRUCTURE
PROPERTY TAXES AND FROM VERSION
BENEATH THE CITY'S KIDS MIGHT
OF THE PARKING STRUCTURE
HAVE EVEN HAD A SEASONAL SPLASH
BENEATH THE CITY'S KIDS MIGHT
PAD AND OUTDOOR ICE SKATING.
HAVE EVEN HAD A SEASONAL SPLASH
PLEASE TAKE THAT HARD AND
PAD AND OUTDOOR ICE SKATING.
HONEST LOOK AND THAT BOLDLY AND
PLEASE TAKE THAT HARD AND
REALISTICALLY AND FIND A NEW
HONEST LOOK AND THAT BOLDLY AND
PATH BEYOND PROPOSAL TO
REALISTICALLY AND FIND A NEW
REINVENT AND ACTIVATE THE SPACE
PATH BEYOND PROPOSAL TO
.
REINVENT AND ACTIVATE THE SPACE
I BELIEVE THE PUBLIC WOULD
.
APPRECIATE THE CHANCE TO WEIGH
I BELIEVE THE PUBLIC WOULD
IN AGAIN THIS TIME FIVE YEARS
APPRECIATE THE CHANCE TO WEIGH
WISER.
IN AGAIN THIS TIME FIVE YEARS
THANK YOU.
WISER.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS GREG
THANK YOU.
WITTERING
.
>> THANK YOU COUNSEL.
MY NAME IS GREG WOODRING.
I'M THE PRESIDENT OF ANN ARBOR
PUBLIC POWER.
I LIVE AT TEN TWELVE WEST CROSS
.
I'M HERE TODAY TO ASK ABOUT ONE
SMALL ADDITION TO THE BUDGETARY
TO THE BUDGET THAT WAS PROPOSED
BY CITY ADMINISTRATOR TO HONY.
VERY MUCH APPRECIATE YOUR
EXCELLENT PRESENTATION ON THAT
.
THE COUNCIL MAY REMEMBER THAT
BACK IN JANUARY OF TWENTY
TWENTY TWO THE COUNCIL APPROVED
A FEASIBILITY STUDY INTO
MUNICIPAL IZATION AS WELL AS
SOME OTHER ENERGY OPTIONS THAT
STUDY WAS FUNDED IN SEPTEMBER
OF TWENTY TWO AND IT'S GOING TO
BE FINISHING HERE IN ABOUT JUNE
OF THIS YEAR.
WE DO NOT KNOW THE RESULTS
OF THAT STUDY YET.
HOWEVER IF THAT STUDY IS
POSITIVE THE NEXT STEP WOULD BE
TO GET A VALUATION OF DTRS
ASSETS IN OUR AREA FOR PUBLIC
POWER SUGGESTING THAT WE
RESERVE SOME AMOUNT OF MONEY IN
THE BUDGET TO PAY FOR THAT
STUDY SHOULD WE DECIDE TO DO IT
.
WE ORIGINALLY PROPOSED FIVE
HUNDRED THOUSAND FOR THAT
STUDY.
HOWEVER, AFTER TALKING TO OTHER
COMMUNITIES THAT HAVE DONE A
STUDY THEY BELIEVE THAT TO BE
CONSIDERABLY CHEAPER THAN THAT
.
SO WE'RE AMENDING OUR PROPOSAL
TO TWO HUNDRED FIFTY THOUSAND
DOLLARS RESERVED TO GET A HARD
VALUATION OF THE ASSETS.
WHAT THAT VALUATION WILL DO IS
IT WILL HELP WITH THE CITY'S
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS TO BE ABLE TO
GO TO DTI WITH A GOOD OFFER FOR
THE PRICE OF THEIR ASSETS
SHOULD WE DECIDE TO GO THROUGH
WITH THE ACQUISITION PROCESS.
MAYOR TAYLOR ACTUALLY JUST GAVE
AN EXCELLENT INTERVIEW WHERE HE
OUTLINED THE PROCESS FOR MOVING
FORWARD INITIALIZATION ON STATE
SIDE.
I'D DEFINITELY RECOMMEND ALL
OF YOU GO AND LISTEN TO THAT
AND IF ANY OF YOU HAVE ANY
FURTHER QUESTIONS, I WOULD LIKE
TO DISCUSS IT MORE WITH US.
WE'RE ALWAYS HAPPY TO TALK WITH
YOU.
YOU CAN REACH OUT TO US AT
ADENHART IN OUR REPUBLIC POWER
EDGE.
EMAIL THAT FROM THANK YOU ALL
FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ELLEN
STRONG
SIR ELLEN STRONGMAN ON
ZOOM.
GO AHEAD.
HI EVERYBODY.
MY NAME IS SARAH ELLEN
STRONGMAN.
I MOVED TO ANN ARBOR IN TWENTY
EIGHTEEN.
I'VE BEEN A RESIDENT IN WARD
FOUR SINCE I MOVED HERE AND I'M
HERE TODAY TO TALK ABOUT THE
SO-CALLED CENTER OF THE CITY
THE ELECTION WHERE PROP EIGHT
APPEARED ON THE BALLOT WAS THE
FIRST ELECTION IN MICHIGAN THAT
I WAS ELIGIBLE TO PARTICIPATE
IN.
MY PARENTS RAISED ME TO BE AN
ACTIVE CITIZEN AND I REGISTERED
TO VOTE AS SOON AS I MOVED HERE
I WAS ELIGIBLE.
I READ ALL ABOUT, YOU KNOW, THE
VARIOUS ELECTIONS HAPPENING.
I READ UP ABOUT PROP EIGHT AND
I REMEMBER THINKING WELL THIS
IS SILLY.
IT'S OBVIOUSLY NOT GOING TO
PASS IN PARTICULAR I REMEMBER
READING A STORY I THINK IN THE
OBSERVER WHERE THEY INTERVIEW
PROPONENTS AND OPPONENTS
OF PROP EIGHT AND OF OF THE UP
OF THE UP YOU KNOW, PROPONENTS
PICK A COUPLE WHO SAID THAT ANY
BUILDING ON THE LOT WOULD BLOCK
THE VIEW FROM THERE 500
THOUSAND DOLLAR CONDO AND I WAS
REALLY SURPRISED WHEN IT
PASSED.
HOWEVER, I SADLY NOT BEEN
SURPRISED BY THE COMPLETE LACK
OF PROGRESS THAT THE SO-CALLED
CENTER OF THE CITY COMMISSION
HAS MADE.
I RECENTLY SAW A NUMBER
OF TWEETS ABOUT THE WORK THAT
WASN'T BEING DONE AT THIS
COMMISSION PEOPLE SMOKING AND
DRINKING DURING PUBLIC MEETINGS
JUST LAST WEEK I WAS WALKING
DOWN DIVISION DOWNTOWN TO MEET
A FRIEND AND THE ONLY PEOPLE I
SAW ANYWHERE NEAR THAT LOT
USING IT WERE PEOPLE WERE A
COUPLE OF TEENAGERS ON
SKATEBOARDS WHO WERE ACTUALLY
ON THEIR WAY TO LIBERTY PLAZA
BECAUSE THAT SEEMED LIKE A
BETTER PLACE TO BE ABLE TO TRY
AND DO YOU KNOW KICKFLIP OR
WHATEVER.
CITY ADMINISTRATOR DAHOMEY
RECENT REPORT OUTLINES THE MANY
WAYS THAT QUOTE UNQUOTE
ACTIVATING THE CENTER OF THE
CITY IS A PLACE FOR FOOD TRUCKS
WAS THOROUGH, HONEST AND YOU
KNOW, AS A PREVIOUS COMMENTER
SAID, DAMING I WOULD LIKE TO
JOIN SEVERAL OTHER COMMENTERS
BOTH AT THIS MEETING AND I
THINK THAT OTHERS IN THE PAST
TO ASK COUNCIL TO STEP IN.
I THINK THAT WE WOULD ALL AS
ANN ARBOR I'D LOVE TO HAVE
PLACES TO GATHER SENATOR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR DOCKERY'S
DESCRIPTION A POTENTIAL SPLASH
PRODUCTIVITY GARDEN AT THE
CURRENTLY NAMED MILLER PARK I'M
SURE HAVE BEEN MET WITH LOTS
AND LOTS OF ENTHUSIASM.
THIRTY SECONDS BUT IT'S ALSO
BACKED UP BY ACTUAL PLANNING
AND EXPERTIZE WITH THE CENTER
OF THE CITY DOESN'T HAVE WE
NEED TO PUT OUR MONEY WHERE OUR
MOUTHS ARE AND USE THEM FOR
THINGS THAT ARE IMPORTANT.
AND RIGHT NOW THIS BOONDOGGLE
ISN'T ONE OF THEM.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BRANDON
DEMCHUK
.
BRANDON DEMCHUK FONZO.
GO AHEAD.
HI, THIS IS BRANDON DMITROV
CALLING IN FROM THE WEST.
VERY TALENTED BOARD FOR I AM
ALSO CALLING IN TO ASK COUNCIL
TO TAKE ACTION TO ADDRESS THE
LACK OF PROGRESS THAT WE'VE
SEEN AT THE LIBRARY SURFACE
PARKING LOT IN THE NEARLY FIVE
YEARS SINCE VOTERS NARROWLY
PASSED THE CHARTER AMENDMENT TO
TURN PARKING LOT INTO A PUBLIC
COMMONS.
THERE'S BEEN NEXT TO NO
PROGRESS TOWARDS THAT GOAL.
THE SITE REMAINS A SERVICE
PARKING LOT.
THE CITY IS TENS OF MILLIONS
OF DOLLARS AND WE'RE FURTHER
BEHIND IN BUILDING MUCH NEEDED
HOUSING AS A RESULT, IF PROP
EIGHT HADN'T PASSED WE SURELY
WOULD HAVE HAD A FREE USABLE
PUBLIC FATHER IN THE CROWD BY
NOW ALONG WITH FIVE MILLION
DOLLARS MORE IN THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FUND, THE CURRENT STATE
OF THE SITE HAS EMPHASIZED
PHASE ONE ON TONIGHT'S AGENDA
SUGGESTS THAT SIGNIFICANT
RESOURCES WOULD BE REQUIRED TO
TRANSFORM IT INTO A SUITABLE
SPACE FOR EVEN HOSTING FOOD
TRUCKS RESOURCES THAT ARE
UNDERSTANDABLY HESITANT TO
ALLOCATE THE LAST MEETING
OF THE COUNCIL THE COMMENTS AT
THAT MEETING ONE COMMITTEE
MEMBER APPEARED TO BE FULLY
BAKED WHILE THE COMMITTEE
DISCUSSED AND AT BEST HALF
BAKED RFP THE SPACE.
IT ALSO SEEMS THAT LIBRARY
GREEN HAVE BEEN SITTING ON
FUNDS FOR WHO KNOWS HOW LONG
THAT THEY SIMPLY CHOSE NOT TO
SPEND TO ACCELERATE IT IS THE
BEGINNING OF A DRAFT RFP AND
MAYBE FOOD TRUCKS IS ALL THE
PROGRESS HAVE IN FIVE YEARS.
IT'S TIME TO CUT OUR LOSSES AND
MOVE ON WHETHER WE REPEAL
FRAPP ENTIRELY OR REPLACE IT
WITH SOMETHING MORE FLEXIBLE.
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE US PUT THE
ISSUE TO VOTERS THIS YEAR.
THE LONGER WE IT THE WORSE IT
IS FOR EVERYONE INVOLVED.
WE MUST MAKE A DECISION AS SOON
AS POSSIBLE TO BE ABLE TO MOVE
FORWARD.
>> I THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ADAM
GUESTIMATES
AND I'M JUST GAVAGE
.
HI, THIS IS ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ
FROM THE FOURTH WARD.
I SENT THIS TO COUNCILOR'S AN
EMAIL BUT I WANTED TO CALL IN
AND READ IT INTO THE RECORD.
I READ THIS ASTOUNDINGLY BRUTAL
I MIGHT ADD MEMO LAST NIGHT AND
WAS STRUCK BY THREE THINGS
FIRST PROPOSAL IT WAS PASSED IN
TWENTY EIGHTEEN AND WE'RE ONLY
NOW LOOKING AT OPTIONS SUCH AS
FOOD TRUCKS.
WE'RE COMING UP ON FIVE YEARS
EVERYTHING ABOUT THE CENTER
OF THE CITY AND COUNCIL OF THE
COMMONS OR WHATEVER STYLE TO
REFER TO THIS AS HAS HAD A LACK
OF URGENCY.
WE'RE COMING UP ON THE
BICENTENNIAL WITH NOTHING TO
SHOW FOR IT.
THE COUNCIL OF THE COMMONS IS
STILL WORKING ON PUTTING
TOGETHER A DESIGN RFP AFTER
NEARLY FIVE YEARS I WATCHED THE
MOST RECENT MEETING AND WAS A
DISASTER WITH ONE MEMBER
INTERRUPTING AND MONOPOLIZING
MUCH OF THE DISCUSSION TIME
WITH A LIST OF EIGHTEEN VAGUE
AMENDMENTS TOWARDS THE END
OF THE MEETING HE APPEARED TO,
AS OUR ELDERS WOULD SAY,
LOOKING BACK ON THE MINUTES
FROM PREVIOUS MEETINGS, IT
DOESN'T SEEM AS IF THEY REPORT
MUCH BACK TO COUNCIL AND IT
ISN'T CLEAR TO ME WHAT THEY
HAVE BEEN DOING ALL THIS TIME.
SECOND ONE HUNDRED AND THIRTY
THOUSAND DOLLARS A YEAR FOR
FOOD TRUST IF WE CAN EVEN DO
FOOD TRUCKS WITH THE POORLY
WORDED CHARTER LANGUAGE
PROPOSAL THEY SADDLED US WITH
AND IF WE CAN FIND OPERATORS
WILLING TO TAKE US UP ON IT
THIRD AND I'LL JUST USE THE
PROPOSED BALLOT EXPLAIN OR TEXT
FOR THIS QUOTE FOR THE CHARTER
AMENDMENT DOES NOT PROVIDE A
FUNDING SOURCE FOR THE
DEVELOPMENT, MAINTENANCE OR
PROGRAMING OF ART AND COMMONS
UNQUOTE.
WE DON'T HAVE MONEY TO PUT FOOD
TRUCKS HERE.
PLEASE PUT AN END TO THIS
CHARADE.
DON'T LET IT DRAG ON FOR
ANOTHER YEAR OR FIVE DISSOLVE
THE COUNCIL OF THE COMMONS SO
THEY STOP WASTING STAFF TIME
AND THE TIME THE TWO COUNCIL
MEMBERS SITTING ON THAT BODY
THEY AREN'T SEEMING TO ACT AS
AN ADVISORY BODY TO COUNCIL
ANYWAY.
SO I DON'T THINK WE WOULD BE
LOSING ANYTHING WITHOUT THEIR
INPUT PASS A BALLOT INITIATIVE
THAT ALLOWS VOTERS TO FIX THE
MISTAKE OF PROPOSAL A EITHER TO
STRIKE THE LANGUAGE ENTIRELY OR
PREFERABLY MODIFY IT SO THAT
THE SPACE CAN BE DEVELOPED TO
PROVIDE A PUBLIC PLAZA HOUSING
AND MONEY FOR CITY PRIORITIES
WHICH COULD INCLUDE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING, CLIMATE, ACTIVE
TRANSPORTATION, AN RESPONSE
DEBT SERVICE ETC. I DON'T WANT
THIS ISSUE TO STILL BE HANGING
OVER OUR HEADS WHILE WE WERE
SUPPOSED TO BE CELEBRATING THE
BICENTENNIAL.
IT'S TIME TO MOVE ON.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS XIKAR
ERIC
ZECHER ON ZOOME GO AHEAD.
THANK YOU.
THIS IS VERY IMPORTANT TO I'D
JUST LIKE TO ADD MY NAME THE
FOLKS WHO'VE ALREADY SPEAKING
SPOKEN ABOUT THE CENTER OF THE
CITY TONIGHT.
I REALLY THINK THAT IT'S TIME
TO REEXAMINE THIS AND PUT A
BALLOT INITIATIVE TO THE VOTERS
TO LET US DECIDE ONCE AND FOR
ALL AFTER EVERYTHING THAT WE'VE
SEEN OVER THE PAST FOUR PLUS
YEARS, WHETHER IT'S WORTH
PUTTING ANY MORE TIME, EFFORT
AND MONEY INTO THIS BROKEN
INITIATIVE THAT WE EMBARKED ON
OSTENSIBLY FOR A PUBLIC PLAZA
BUT REALLY TO STOP A
DEVELOPMENT DOWNTOWN.
A LOT OF THE SUPPORTERS WHO
REMAIN AFTER THE DEVELOPMENT
WAS STOPPED ARE STILL DIVIDED
ON PURPOSE AND SCOPE OTHER THAN
A SMALL FLOWER BED AND MAYBE A
HANDFUL OF EVENTS OVER THE FOUR
PLUS YEARS, THIS PARKING LOT AS
MUCH THERE WAS NO REAL PLANS TO
CHANGE IT ANY TIME SOON.
I THINK THE CITY ADMINISTRATORS
MEMO IS CORRECT AND I THINK HIS
PLANS FOR THE REST OF THE CITY
SOUND REALLY WELL THOUGHT OUT
AND WONDERFUL AND IN STARK
CONTRAST WHAT THIS GROUP HAS
COME UP WITH TIME TO CUT BAIT.
THERE'S A DAWNING RECOGNITION
IN OUR CITY THAT WE MUST ADAPT
AND CHANGE TO MEET THE GROWING
CRISIS OF CLIMATE HOUSING AND
IF WE'RE GOING TO DEVOTE TIME
AND ENERGY TO SOMETHING THEN
LET IT BE THAT'S NOT WINDOW
DRESSING ON A PARKING.
THE ONLY WAY TO CHANGE THE U.S.
FOR THIS LOT NOW IS BY AMENDING
THE CITY CHARTER AND PUTTING IT
TO THE VOTERS AND THAT'S WITHIN
YOUR SCOPE AS OUR CITY'S
ELECTED LEADERS TO DO JUST THAT
.
AND I URGE YOU TO DO IT DO IT
THIS YEAR, PUT A BALLOT
PROPOSAL FORWARD AND LET THE
VOTERS DECIDE WHETHER TO
MAINTAIN THE STATUS QUO AS IT
IS NO OR COME UP WITH A NEW
AGGRESSIVE USE OF THIS PLAN.
IT IS RIGHT NEXT TO A BUS DEPOT
NEAR THE LIBRARY SOMETHING
BETTER THAN A PARKING LOT.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME AND
THANK YOU MR. DE HONI FOR YOUR
GREAT PRESENTATION TONIGHT.
GOING TO SEE A LOT OF HOPE FOR
OUR CITY.
THANK YOU.
COMMUNICATIONS FROM COUNCIL
CASIMIR QUENELLE THANK MAYOR
TAYLOR.
I WANT TO FOLLOW UP ON SOME
REPORT THAT I GAVE FOLLOWING
THE CITY SCHOOLS COMMITTEE
MEETING.
I DID RECEIVE CONSTITUENT
QUESTIONS ABOUT THE BEFORE AND
AFTER CARE PROGRAMS WHICH I
SUBMITTED TO THE THE APS ON
SEPTEMBER MARCH 15TH EXCUSE ME
I WAS REFERRED ON FRIDAY TO
SUPERINTENDENT SWIFT APRIL 14TH
.
SUPERINTENDENT UPDATE IF YOU
WOULD LIKE TO LOOK AT THAT
THERE IS A UNDER THE SECTION
BOARD OF EDUCATION FOR SPRING
UPDATE.
THERE IS A LINK WHERE YOU CAN
REFER TO THE POWERPOINT SLIDES.
THERE'S ABOUT FOUR OF THEM
PRETTY QUICK READ THAT WOULD
EXPLAIN KIND OF THE PROGRESS
THAT AND THE CHALLENGES THAT
THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS CONTINUE TO
FACE IN TERMS OF BEFORE AND
AFTER CARE.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT I'M
COMMITTED TO CONTINUE WORKING
ON AS PART OF THE CITY SCHOOLS
GROUP BUT THAT IS AN UPDATE TO
PROVIDE.
I WANTED TO LET CALL ATTENTION
TO THE FACT THAT THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY LESLIE
SCIENCE NATURE CENTER, THE
LEGACY LAND CONSERVANCY, THE
RIVER WATERSHED COUNCIL IN ANN
ARBOR, HANTON MUSEUM HAVE
TEAMED UP TO CREATE A REALLY
AWESOME EARTH DAY PROGRAM ON
SUNDAY APRIL TWENTY THIRD IT
WILL BE AT LESLIE SCIENCE
NATURE CENTER FROM 12 TO FOUR
P.M. I HOPE TO SEE YOU OUT
THERE.
I'M EXCITED TO ATTEND AND THEN
I WANT TO THANK STAFF FOR THE
AC ONE MEMO I THOUGHT THAT IT
WAS THOROUGH AND REALLY WELL
PRESENTED.
I KNOW THAT IT YOU IT'S NINE
PAGES.
IT WAS OBVIOUSLY A HEAVY LIFT
AND VERY THOUGHTFULLY DONE SO
THANK YOU TO OUT TO STAFF FOR
THAT.
AND THEN FINALLY JUST TO REMIND
FOLKS THAT COUNCIL MEMBER BEGGS
AND I HAD TO RESCHEDULE OUR
LISTENING HOUR FROM LAST
SUNDAY.
IT WILL BE THIS SUNDAY THE
TWENTY THIRD AT FOUR P.M. AT
THE ATC AND SO HOPEFULLY I'LL
SEE YOU THERE AFTER SEEING YOU
AT LESLIE SCIENCE NATURE
CENTER.
THANK YOU.
SO LONG.
I WAS JUST THINKING THAT
WHENEVER WE HAVE SOMEONE WHO
TRIES TO PRESENT BASICALLY DENY
THE HOLOCAUST I AM REDOUBLING
MY COMMITMENT AS A BOARD MEMBER
OF JEWISH FAMILY SERVICES AND
MAKING SURE I DONATE A THOUSAND
DOLLARS FOR EVERY COMMENT SO
ENCOURAGE FOLKS TO TAKE A LOOK
AT OUR JEWISH COMMUNITY AND
THINK OF THE GOOD WORK THEY'RE
DOING.
SPEAKING OF JEFFARES, I WANT TO
THANK DFS FOR COHOSTING AN
AMAZING CELEBRATION THAT WAS
ORGANIZED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
EDWIN SCHOOL BOARD MEMBER RHEMA
MAHAMAD SCHOOL BOARD MEMBER I'M
SORRY TRUSTEE KRYSTAL DUPREE.
WE HAD OVER 200 PEOPLE I'M SURE
COUNCIL MEMBER I THINK AS
EVERYONE CAN SPEAK MORE TO IT.
BUT I WAS REALLY GRATEFUL TO
SEE THAT COMING TOGETHER
OF COMMUNITIES ACROSS RELIGIOUS
GROUPS AND IN SUPPORT OF JFC
TOY FOR REFUGEE CHILDREN UM, I
WANT TO SPEAK A LITTLE BIT TO
JUDE WALTON WHO I KNEW AND TO
CAPACITY'S WHAT'S NOT MENTIONED
PUBLICLY HAS BEEN HER
INVOLVEMENT IN A GROUP CALLED
CHAMPIONS FOR CHANGE.
UM SO LET ME JUST READ A LITTLE
BIT ABOUT THIS PROGRAM AND I
HOPE THAT IT WILL INSPIRE FOLKS
TO COMMIT THEMSELVES TO OUR
COMMUNITY AS A DUDED CHAMPIONS
FOR CHANGE IS A PROGRAM THAT
RECOGNIZES THAT IN VIBRANT
COMMUNITIES ALL PEOPLE ARE
WELCOMED, INCLUDED, VALUED AND
NURTURED THE RACIAL DISPARITIES
OUR COMMUNITIES FACE THOUGH
PROVE THAT WE'RE NOT THERE
CHAMPIONS FOR CHANGE AND AND
CULTIVATES LEADERS AS WE ALL
WORK TOWARD A COLLABORATIVE
FUTURE TOGETHER WE CAN FIND NEW
WAYS TO DISRUPT THE MANY FORMS
OF RACISM.
OUR COMMUNITY OF PRACTICE IS A
SPACE FOR IMAGINATION, HEALING
,EXPERIMENTATION AND
TRANSFORMATION.
LEADERS OF COLOR ARE NURTURED
AND SUPPORTED AS THEY GROW.
WHITE LEADERS LEARN WAYS TO
WHOLEHEARTEDLY LEVERAGE THEIR
POWER AND PRIVILEGE FOR
JUSTICE.
TOGETHER WE'RE LAYING THE
GROUNDWORK FOR SYSTEMIC CHANGE
IN OUR COMMUNITIES.
I HOPE AS FOLKS REMEMBER JUD'S
IMPACT IN OUR COMMUNITY WE CAN
ALSO UPLIFT THESE EFFORTS THAT
WILL CONTINUE AND THAT AS A
CHAMPION FOR CHANGE ESPECIALLY
HERE AT THE TABLE WE CAN BE
INSPIRED BY YOUR WORK.
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER BRAKE'S
THANKS.
I WANTED TO CONTINUE THE
COMMENTS AROUND REMEMBERING IN
WALTON I WAS NOT ONE OF THE
FORTUNATE COMMUNITY MEMBERS
THAT ACTUALLY KNEW HER
PERSONALLY BUT I'VE LEARNED A
LOT ABOUT HER IN THE PAST FEW
DAYS.
SHE WAS A FIFTH WARD RESIDENT
AND I KNOW THE COMMUNITY AT
LARGE IS IS MOURNING HER AND
HER NEIGHBORS ARE AS WELL.
IT WAS A HORRIFYING EVENT
THAT'S HAPPENED IN AND PEOPLE
ARE HEARTBROKEN AND TRAUMATIZED
AND IT'S GOING TO TAKE US SOME
TIME TO GET THROUGH THIS.
I WOULD LIKE TO THANK THE
ENTIRE POLICE DEPARTMENT FOR
THEIR THEIR QUICK RESPONSE TO
THIS INCIDENT.
THE FACT THAT WE HAVE A SUSPECT
IN CUSTODY IS A TESTAMENT TO
THEIR TO THEIR GOOD WORK AFTER
THIS AFTER THIS HORRIFYING
INCIDENT
TRANSITIONING MORE TO
TALK ABOUT THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
I JUST WANT TO DRAW FOLKS
ATTENTION TO THE ANNUAL REPORT
THAT'S OUR AGENDA TONIGHT.
IT'S THE FIRST ONE SINCE TWENTY
SIXTEEN THAT WE'VE HAD.
SO I WOULD LIKE TO THANK
INTERIM CHIEF METZER FOR FOR
PREPARING THAT THAT IT WAS
SOMETHING THAT I HAD MENTIONED
THAT I WAS INTERESTED IN WHEN I
FIRST CAME IN AND ON TO COUNCIL
AND SO I'M REALLY EXCITED TO
SEE THAT ON OUR AGENDA TONIGHT.
SO THANKS FOR THAT AND FINALLY,
I GUESS I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO
JUST NOTE THAT IT'S IT'S PRETTY
HORRIFYING TO HEAR HOLOCAUST
DENIER HERE IN IN THE COUNCIL
CHAMBERS COUNCIL BRACKMAN THANK
YOU.
>> I WANTED TO LET PEOPLE KNOW
THAT THERE'S A PUBLIC MEETING
COMING UP FOR THE S 7TH
RESURFACING WATER MAIN
RELOCATION PROJECT THAT'S
PLANNED TO HAPPEN NEXT YEAR GOT
POSTPONED BACK IN NOVEMBER
BECAUSE CITY COUNCIL DIRECTED
NEW DESIGNS FOR THIS.
SO THE MEETING IS ON TUESDAY,
APRIL TWENTY FIFTH FROM SIX TO
SEVEN THIRTY AT THE PITTSFIELD
BRANCH LIBRARY.
THE MEETING WILL GIVE THE
COMMUNITY AN OPPORTUNITY TO
DISCUSS CHANGES.
THEY'LL HAVE THE CHANCE TO
WEIGH IN ON ROAD SAFETY
IMPROVEMENTS THROUGH DISCUSSION
AND GROUP EXERCISES.
COUNCIL MEMBER IHR THANK YOU.
>> I JUST WANTED TO MAKE A
QUICK COMMENT ABOUT THE
PROCLAMATION TONIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH, MR. MAYOR.
FOR DOING THAT PROCLAMATION FOR
WORKERS.
MEMORIAL DAY IS THE DAUGHTER
OF AN ELECTRICIAN WHO RAN
CONSTRUCTION SITES THROUGHOUT
MY CHILDHOOD I GREW UP
UNDERSTANDING THE JUST
INCREDIBLE CRITICAL NEED FOR
SAFETY AND FOLLOWING OSHA
GUIDELINES ON JOB SITES AND AND
HOW IT MADE SURE THAT MY
DAD MADE IT HOME TO OUR FAMILY
EVERY NIGHT AND UNFORTUNATELY
AS WAS NOTED BY BY THAT BY THE
LABOR REPRESENTATIVE, THAT
DOESN'T ALWAYS HAPPEN AND EVEN
OUR OWN COMMUNITY WE JUST HAD
AN ACCIDENT IN EARLY MARCH
WHERE A WORKER FELL 40 FEET
FROM A CONSTRUCTION SITE WAS
CRITICALLY INJURED.
WE HAVEN'T SEEN ANY UPDATES YET
BUT I'M FOLLOWING THAT THE OSHA
INVESTIGATION IS ONGOING WHEN
THAT COMES OUT AND REGARDLESS
OF THAT PARTICULAR OUTCOME, I'M
GOING TO BE WORKING WITH WITH
OUR CITY ATTORNEY'S OFFICE AND
OUR STAFF TO SEE WHAT CAN WE DO
WITH THE COUNCIL AS A BODY TO
IMPROVE WORKER SAFETY IN OUR
COMMUNITY PRIVATE CONSTRUCTION.
WE'VE ALREADY DONE QUITE A BIT
FOR PUBLIC INSTRUCTION WITH OUR
NEW BEST VALUE CONTRACTING
POLICY.
BUT IN TERMS OF PRIVATE
INSTRUCTION, THE ONLY AVENUES
THAT WE HAVE OUR THROUGH THE
BUILDING PERMIT PROCESS AND SO
FOR EXAMPLE, IF THIS PARTICULAR
CONTRACTING COMPANY IS FOUND TO
HAVE BEEN NEGLIGENT LEADING TO
THAT WORKERS FALL THAT
CONTRACTOR SHOULD NOT BE ABLE
TO WORK IN AN FOR A TIME AND SO
I'M GOING TO BE PURSUING THAT
IN THE FUTURE.
SO THANK YOU AGAIN AND THAT'S
IT.
COUNSELOR 01, I THANK YOU.
SO I WANTED TO FOLLOW UP ON
WHAT CORNELL ALSO SHARED ABOUT
THIS REPORT OUT FROM THE CITY
SCHOOL COMMITTEE.
WE'RE CONTINUING TO ALSO WORK
WITH THEM.
I BELIEVE THAT THEY HAVE
STARTED AGAIN THE AAPS
TRANSPORTATION SAFETY COMMITTEE
MEETINGS AND A FEW PEOPLE HAVE
REACHED OUT ABOUT WHETHER THERE
IS A MEETING TOMORROW NIGHT.
IT IS A WORKING GROUP MEETING,
NOT A TYPICAL BOARD COMMITTEE
MEETING PUBLIC COMING.
THE ATTENDANCE IS OPEN.
YOU CAN GO TO THE MAIN
CONFERENCE ROOM OF THE BALANCE
ADMINISTRATION BUILDING AT 2:00
P.M. TOMORROW AND THEN AT TIME
FOR THE NEXT MEETING WILL BE
ANNOUNCED SOON.
I ALSO WANTED TO SHARE SOME
THOUGHTS ABOUT THE TRAGIC
PASSING OF JUDE WALTON.
I DIDN'T HAVE THE PRIVILEGE TO
KNOW HER BUT MY HEART GOES OUT
TO ALL THOSE WHO KNEW HER AND
WHO LOVED HER.
I HOPE THAT AFTER THIS HORRIBLE
TRAGEDY WE CAN HONOR HER LEGACY
AND HER AND HER WORK WHICH WAS
REALLY ABOUT BRINGING PEOPLE
AND PROVIDING SUPPORT TO THOSE
WHO ARE MOST MARGINALIZED AND
VULNERABLE IN OUR COMMUNITY,
NOT LEAVING THEM BEHIND.
THAT MEANS PROVIDING RESOURCES
FOR THOSE WHO ARE HOUSING
INSECURE WHICH SHE WORKED TO DO
EXPERIENCE SUBSTANCE ABUSE
DISORDER, MENTAL HEALTH ILLNESS
WHILE ALSO NOT PROMOTING A
NARRATIVE THAT PEOPLE WITH
MENTAL ILLNESS TEND TO COMMIT
MORE CRIME BECAUSE ACTUALLY
THEY TEND TO BE VICTIMS, NOT
PERPETRATORS OF CRIMES.
I ALSO WANT TO EXPRESS MY
DISGUST ABOUT THE HOLOCAUST
DENIAL IS ONE THAT'S HAPPENED
HERE TONIGHT.
I THINK IT'S ABHORRENT AND I
JUST WANT TO YOU KNOW, AGAIN
SAY THAT I STAND BY THE JEWISH
COMMUNITY AND OUR CITY AND I
WANT TO THANK THEM FOR HELPING
US TO DO THE WORK WE DID TO
PLAN THAT AMAZING IF THE EVENT
SO THANK YOU CATCH ME DENHA.
THANK YOU MAYOR TAYLOR.
I WANT TO JUST EXPRESS MY
GRATITUDE TO ADMINISTRATOR TO
HONI AND ALL OF OUR STAFF FOR
ALL THE HARD WORK THAT'S GONE
INTO THE BUDGET THUS FAR.
I KNOW THAT WE ARE IN THE
MIDDLE OF THIS PROCESS.
THERE'S STILL SOME WORK TO GO
BUT I KNOW THAT A TON OF WORK
HAS GONE INTO THIS AND SO I
JUST WANT TO THANK EVERYONE WHO
HAS BEEN PUTTING WORK IN DATE.
I JUST ALSO WANTED TO DRAW SOME
ATTENTION TO SOME WORK FROM THE
RENTERS COMMISSION THIS PAST
WEEKEND.
I KNOW A COUPLE OF US WERE ABLE
TO ATTEND THEIR FIRST IN-PERSON
LISTENING SESSION THAT THEY
HELD AT THE SCULPTURE PLAZA
THIS PAST WEEKEND.
WE HEARD IT FROM PROBABLY ABOUT
TWENTY LOCAL RENTERS, MANY
OF THEM ACTUALLY LOW INCOME
SENIORS WHO CAME OUT TO SHARE
SOME OF THE CHALLENGES THAT
THEY'RE FACING.
AND I JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE
THAT ANYBODY WHO WASN'T ABLE TO
ATTEND IN PERSON IF YOU ARE
STILL LOOKING TO SHARE YOUR
PERSPECTIVES AND THOUGHTS ABOUT
PRIORITIES THAT THE RENTERS
COMMISSION SHOULD BE WORKING
ON, IF THERE ARE PARTICULAR
CHALLENGES YOU'RE FACING YOU
CAN ALWAYS REACH A COMMISSION
THAT RENTERS COMMISSION AT A
NEW GOVERNMENT.
ORG AND ALSO JUST WANTED TO
THANK COMMISSIONERS ELLIS AND
TIBBITS FOR HOSTING THE EVENT
AND I CHAIR FERA WHO PUT A LOT
OF WORK INTO SPREADING THE WORD
ABOUT IT AS WELL.
>> THANKS.
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
YOU KNOW
I JUST WANT TO ECHO SOME OF THE
COMMENTS OF MY COLLEAGUES.
I WAS NOT FORTUNATE ENOUGH TO
KNOW JUDE WALTON BUT I HEARD
ABOUT HER PASSING JUST BEFORE
THE START OF THE HOUSING AND
HUMAN SERVICES ADVISORY BOARD
MEETING LAST WEEK AND I
COULDN'T HELP BUT REFLECT ON
THE WORK THAT AVALLONE
CONTINUES TO DO IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
JUDE WAS THE WAS AVALON'S
DIRECTOR OF EMPLOYEE EMPLOYEE
EXPERION FOR THE PAST 14 YEARS
AND IT'S JUST EVIDENT IN THE
START OF MY SERVICE ON THAT
COMMISSION AND MY SERVICE ON
CITY COUNCIL THE WORK THAT THEY
HAVE DONE CONTINUES TO DO FOR
THE LEAST FORTUNATE IN OUR
COMMUNITY HERE.
I ALSO WANT TO INVITE WARD TWO
RESIDENTS TO MY COFFEE , OUR
THIS SUNDAY APRIL TWENTY THIRD
AT SWEETWATERS AND PLYMOUTH ON
PLYMOUTH AND GREEN THAT WILL BE
THIS SUNDAY FROM THREE TO FOUR
P.M. THANK YOU FOR THEIR
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL CAST
MEMBER HARRISON.
THANK YOU MR. TAYLOR.
JUST SAY A FEW THINGS IN
REGARDS TO THE TRAGEDY WITH
JUDE WALTON.
THIS IS A TRAUMATIC TIME FOR
OUR ENTIRE COMMUNITY.
POTENTIAL FEARS FEARS COULD BE
POTENTIALLY HEIGHTENED AT THE
MOMENT AND THERE WILL BE
TEMPTATION AMONG SOME TO HOLD
UP JUDE WALTON'S DEATH AS A
CALL TO ARMS FOR COMMUNITIES TO
PULL BACK ON INITIATIVES SUCH
AS AFFORDABLE HOUSING THAT WORK
TO BREAK THE CYCLE
OF HOMELESSNESS AND POVERTY WE
HAVE SO MANY STORIES AND DATA
ABOUT THE POSITIVE IMPACTS
OF HAVING A HOME ON THE LIVES
OF CHILDREN AND ADULTS THAT
WHAT OCCURRED AS HORRIFIC AS
WAS DERAILED WITH DECADES
OF WORK THAT SHE ENGAGED IN AND
THOSE THAT SHE ADVOCATED FOR.
WHAT WE MUST REMEMBER IS THAT
THIS IS THE ACT OF ONE
INDIVIDUAL A TERRIBLE, HORRIFIC
AND UNIMAGINABLE ACT.
WE MUST NOT USE THIS INDIVIDUAL
ACT TO FOSTER HATE AGAINST
MULTIPLE GROUPS PEOPLE OF COLOR
THE UNHEALTH RETURNING
CITIZENS, PEOPLE WITH A MENTAL
ILLNESS AND THOSE THAT SUFFER
WITH A CERTAIN FROM A SUBSTANCE
USE DISORDER.
THE BEST WAY FOR ALL OF US TO
HONOR DUDE WHO IS A PILLAR
OF OUR COMMUNITY IS TO LIFT UP
THE CAUSE OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING
WHICH SHE SPENT 14 YEARS
FIGHTING FOR.
WE CAN HONOR HER LEGACY AND
UPLIFT HER SPIRIT BY SUPPORTING
THE WORK THAT SHE DID AND BY
SUPPORTING INITIATIVES THAT
PROVIDE HOUSING WHICH EVERYONE
DESERVES BETTER COMMUNICATION
FROM COUNCIL
FOR MY OWN PART I
JUST WANT TO MENTION BRIEFLY
ITS IT'S ENTIRELY RIGHT AND
PROPER THAT WE HERE AT THE
TABLE FROM THE PODIUM THE CHAIR
CARTER AND THROUGHOUT MOST
ALL
THE COMMUNITY HAVE HAVE
EMPHASIZED JUDE WALTON'S GOOD
WORKS HAVE EMPHASIZED THE THE
SOCIAL HARMS THAT SHE DEVOTED
HERSELF TO COMBATING AND TAKING
HER DEATH AS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
US TO REDOUBLE OUR EFFORTS IN
THOSE REGARDS.
THAT IS I THINK SHOULD BE AND
WILL BE OUR OUR PRIMARY THE
PRIMARY RESULT IN THE COMMUNITY
OF DEATH.
I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO ENGAGE
THAT IT IS ANOTHER INSTANCE IN
WHICH YOU KNOW, VIOLENCE HAS
CREATED HARM AND HEARTBREAK AND
AND THAT IS THAT IS WHAT IT
WREAKS AND THAT IS WHAT I THINK
WE AS A COMMUNITY NEED TO
CONTINUE TO TO WORK TO COUNTER
WHETHER THROUGH EDUCATION AND
SERVICES AND BROADLY SPEAKING
THE CREATION OF A CULTURE OF OF
KINDNESS AND SUPPORT THAT THAT
CONDEMNS VIOLENCE, THAT
CONDEMNS SEXUAL ASSAULT, THAT
CONDEMNS THE HARMS THAT THEY
CREATE.
I TOO WOULD LIKE TO THANK THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT ONE AND ALL
FOR THEIR THEIR SWIFT SECURE
WORK IN THIS REGARD THEY YOU
KNOW, HAVE A I THINK DONE US
ALL PROUD HERE.
WE AS A COMMUNITY ARE
TRAUMATIZED BUT WE ARE YOU
KNOW, I THINK WE ARE SECURE IN
KNOWING THAT THE VERY LEAST
THAT I SUSPECT HAS BEEN
IDENTIFIED THE JUDICIAL PROCESS
WILL RUN ITS COURSE AND WE'LL
WE'LL SEE WHAT IS THE END
RESULT.
BUT FOR MY PART IN ANY OF THAT
I'M VERY GRATEFUL FOR THE WORK
THAT HAS BEEN DONE.
SPEAKING OF VIOLENCE, WE HAVE
NOT HAD PHYSICAL VIOLENCE HERE
AT THE TABLE BUT WE HAVE HAD
RHETORICAL VIOLENCE IN OUR
CHAMBERS YET AGAIN WITH WITH
ANTI-SEMITISM AND HOLOCAUST
DENIALISM ALTHOUGH IT DOES NOT
AFFECT AN IMMEDIATE AND
PROXIMATE PHYSICAL HARM, IT
DOES CREATE HARM IN THE
COMMUNITY AND OF COURSE LEADS
TO PHYSICAL HARM OVER THE
COURSE OF TIME, TIME AND TIME
AGAIN IT IS ENTIRELY AND
WITHOUT WITHOUT RESERVATION A
DEEP CONTEMPT.
I LIKE TO REQUEST CONFIRMATION
FROM THAT WAS PRESENTED TO CITY
COUNCIL A GROUP OF TWENTY
TWENTY THREE REGULAR SESSION
AND OTHER TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORITY ELIZABETH GERBA
MOTION PLEASE MOVE BY
COUNCILMAN MCCONNELL SECOND BY
COUNSEL IN PRIOR DISCUSSION ON
FATOR POSED IT IS APPROVED OF A
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THE
CONSENT AGENDA BY COUNCIL
MEMBER SECOND BY COUNT NO SONG
DISCUSSION OF THE CONSENT
AGENDA COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
I'D LIKE TO PROPOSE A11
COUNCIL
BRITISH
I'D LIKE TO SEE A 13
AND 14 PLEASE TO THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL.
I'D LIKE TO SEE A NINE FOR
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON THE
CONSENT AGENDA ALL IN FAVOR
OF THE CONSENT AGENDA WITH THE
EXCEPTION SEE A NINE, 11, 13
AND 14.
I OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED WITH
11 COUNTS OF THE CONSENT AGENDA
IS APPROVED WITH ELEVEN COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT THAT SATISFIED
THE EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT.
EXPECT TO SEE A FIVE SIX TEN
ZERO ELEVEN RESOLUTION TO
ACCEPT AN EASEMENT FOR PUBLIC
RIGHT OF WAY AT 660 AIRPORT
ROAD FROM THE TOLL NE FIVE CORP
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
SECONDED BY COUNCILOR THIS
DISCUSSION PLEASE GIVE C11
COUNCILOR WATSON THIS ITEM
RELATES TO THE ERHART
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT.
THERE IS AN EXISTING SIDEWALK
BUILT BY THE DEVELOPER WITHIN
THE RIGHT OF THIS RIGHT OF WAY
EASEMENT PLANS FOR THE
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT WHICH WILL
BE WHICH WILL COME BEFORE
COUNCIL AT A LATER DATE INCLUDE
EXTENDING THE SIDEWALK NORTH TO
GLADIA WHICH WILL ENSURE SAFE
WALKING WITHOUT STICKING OUT
MANTRI SCHOOL.
WE PUT A LOT OF FEEDBACK ON
THIS PROJECT INCLUDING CONCERNS
ABOUT TREES IN THE PROJECT AREA
AND STAFF MET LAST WEEK WITH
THE LEADERSHIP OF THE VILLAGE
HOMES ASSOCIATION TO DISCUSS
PROJECT DETAILS.
SAMSUNG AND I ARE PLEASED TO
REPORT PROGRESS TOWARDS A PLAN
THAT WILL MOVE CURBS TO EXTEND
THE SIDEWALK REMOVING FEWER
TREES.
THE DESIGN HAS NOT BEEN
FINALIZED AND WE WILL CONTINUE
TO COMMUNICATE WITH RESIDENTS
AS MORE DETAILS BECOME
AVAILABLE.
COME ALONG AND I WILL MEET WITH
THE ERHART VILLAGE HOMES
ASSOCIATION THIS WEEK AND I'D
LIKE TO EXPRESS WE ARE GRATEFUL
TO STAFF ESPECIALLY THE
ENGINEER MR HUTCHINSON AND
PROJECT MANAGER MR BAILEY ALONG
WITH THE TONY FROST FOR THEIR
WORK ON THIS PROJECT AND FOR
INCORPORATING COMMUNITY
FEEDBACK FOR THE DISCUSSIONS 11
FAVOR POSED TO ELEVONS APPROVE
WITH 11 COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
OVER IN THE AFFIRMATIVE
SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT C THIRTEEN
RESOLUTION TO THE NINTH
AMENDMENT TO PROFESSIONAL
SERVICES AGREED WITH ROBIN
P.L.C. LEGAL SERVICES RELATIVE
TO ONE FOR THE ACTION FROM
COMMON SCIENCES INC PAUL
LIFESCIENCES THE AMOUNT OF ONE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND
DOLLARS MOVED BY COUNCIL
BRITISH SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON SCOTIAN PLEASE
CAA THIRTEEN COUNCIL MEMBERS.
>> THANK YOU.
THIS AMENDMENT IS NECESSARY TO
SUPPORT A NEW LAWSUIT AGAINST
DELMON TO ENFORCE A PRIOR
SETTLEMENT.
THE LAWSUIT SEEKS TO ENSURE THE
GOVERNMENT COMPLIES WITH ITS
OBLIGATIONS UNDER THE TERMS
OF THE 2006 SETTLEMENT
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY AND
GOVERNMENT.
THAT AGREEMENT REQUIRED GULMAN
TO INSTALL MONITORING WELLS TO
DETECT DIOXANE NEAR THE
MONTGOMERY STREET WELL WHICH
WAS PREVIOUSLY USED AS A SOURCE
FOR THE CITY'S PUBLIC DRINKING
WATER.
THE CONCENTRATIONS OF DIOXIN IN
A FIRST SERIES OF THESE
MONITORING WELLS EXCEEDED ONE
HALF OF THE RESIDENTIAL CLEAN
UP CRITERION DELMON WAS
SUPPOSED TO INSTALL A SECOND
SERIES OF THESE WELLS WHEN THE
STATE OF MICHIGAN REDUCED THE
DIOXIN DRINKING WATER CLEANING
UP CLEANUP CRITERIA FROM EIGHTY
FIVE PARTS PER BILLION TO SEVEN
POINT TWO PARTS PER BILLION,
THAT TRIGGER BECAME MUCH EASIER
TO REACH AND INDEED IT WAS
REACHED AND SO GALMAN WAS
SUPPOSED TO INSTALL A SECOND
SERIES OF THESE WELLS AND IT
DID NOT.
SO GOVERNMENT REFUSED TO DO IT
.
IT HAD SAID IT WOULD DO AND SO
THAT FACT ESTABLISHES THAT IT
IS BOTH TIMELY AND PRUDENT TO
ENFORCE THE CITY'S RIGHTS TO
HAVE THE SECOND SERIES OF WELLS
INSTALLED BY LITIGATION WHICH
IS WHAT THIS AMENDMENT
SUPPORTS.
THESE WELLS ARE IMPORTANT FOR
THE RESIDENTS ORDER BECAUSE
THEY PROVIDE A WARNING SYSTEM
FOR CONTAMINATION MOVING TOWARD
THE NORTHWEST SUPPLY.
WELL, THE MONTGOMERY SWEET
STREET WELL AND THERE IS MONEY
INVOLVED IF IT BECOMES CLEAR
THAT CONCENTRATIONS OF DIOXIN
IN THE MONTGOMERY STREET WELL
ARE SO HIGH AS TO DISQUALIFY
THIS WELL PERMANENTLY AS A
SOURCE OF PRESIDENTIAL DRINKING
WATER THEN GALMAN MAY BE
REQUIRED TO MAKE A SIGNIFICANT
PAYMENT TO THE CITY.
SO IT SHOULD BE CLEAR WHY THE
AMENDMENT TO THIS CONTRACT IS
NECESSARY.
IT WILL SUPPORT A NEW LAWSUIT
TO HOLD GOVERNMENT TO THE TERMS
OF A SETTLEMENT THAT COURTS
HAVE ALREADY IMPOSED THAT
GELMAN HAS ALREADY AGREED TO
AND IT MAY RESULT IN A
SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL BENEFIT
TO THE CITY FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER BRINGS, THANK
YOU TO COUNCIL MEMBER DESH FOR
RAISING WHY THIS IS SO
IMPORTANT.
OBVIOUSLY WE ALL KNOW THAT
PROTECTING OUR WATER SUPPLY IS
SOMETHING THAT IS OF UTMOST
IMPORTANCE TO OUR RESIDENTS AND
THIS IS ALSO SOMETHING
OF PARTICULAR IMPORTANCE TO THE
FOLKS IN THE FIFTH WARD OF WHOM
THE PLUME RUNS DIRECTLY
UNDERNEATH OUR HOMES AND THESE
MONITORING WELLS WILL BE
INSTALLED WITHIN THE FIFTH
WARD.
SO I AM DISASTER SUPPORTING
THIS AMENDMENT.
FURTHER DISCUSSION
POST
APPROVED C A FOURTEEN
RESOLUTION TO AUTHORIZE A
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT
WITH INTERFACE STUDIO LLC FOR
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SERVICES IN
THE AMOUNT OF SIXTY NINE SIX
SIX HUNDRED AND NINETY NINE
THOUSAND ONE HUNDRED AND TEN
DOLLARS GROUP ACCOUNTS AND
REDUCED SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER EICHMAN DISCUSSION PCC
FOURTEEN THOUSAND BRITISH THANK
YOU.
SO THE PLANNING COMMISSION
RECEIVED
DID INTERFACE STUDIO
WHICH IS A PLANNING A WELL
ESTABLISHED FOR 20 YEARS
PLANNING OUT OF PHILADELPHIA.
THEY'LL BE WORKING WITH A LOCAL
TEAM CONSISTING OF SMITH GROUP
INTEGRATE PARTNERS AND ACCESS
WHICH IS ACTUALLY AND AND
ACCESS I SHOULD SAY IT'S
ANTICIPATED TO BE AN 18 MONTH
TO TWO YEAR PROCESS AND I JUST
WANT TO PICK OUT A FEW THINGS
FROM THE RESOLUTION AND I WANT
TO ALSO LEAVE ROOM BECAUSE I
THINK OTHERS MAY WANT TO SPEAK
TO THIS BUT THE RESOLUTION THAT
COUNCIL WILL BE VOTING ON
TONIGHT INSTRUCTS SEVERAL
THINGS TO HAPPEN FROM THIS
PLANNING PROCESS.
FIRST OF ALL, INCORPORATE A TO
ZERO.
WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT THE
THAT ARE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
PROCESS CAREFULLY CONSIDERS AND
IMPLEMENTS THE PORTIONS OF A TO
ZERO THAT ARE APPLICABLE TO
LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT
ACTIVITY IN THE CITY.
THE NEXT IS TO OPEN UP
OPPORTUNITY IN THE CONTEXT
OF OUR LARGELY DEVELOPED CITY.
WE EXPECT OUR COMPREHENSIVE
PLANNING PROCESS TO MAKE
RECOMMENDATIONS OF ADDING NEW
HOMES
AND DENSIFICATION IN
SINGLE FAMILY ZONED AREAS AND
OTHER AREAS AND ZONING DISTRICT
SIMPLIFY.
THAT'S NUMBER THREE OUR CURRENT
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IS VAST.
THERE ARE 30 SOME 13 DOCUMENTS
I THINK I FORGET THE LAST TIME
I COUNTED IT.
WE WOULD LIKE THIS TEAM TO
DEVELOP RECOMMENDATIONS AND
POLICIES THAT PROMOTE FEWER
ZONING DISTRICTS OR CATEGORIES
THAT CONTAIN MORE FLEXIBILITY
FOR REUSE AND ADAPTABILITY OVER
TIME AND THAT RECONCILE THE
DIFFERENCES AMONG THESE MANY,
MANY DOCUMENTS WE CURRENTLY
HAVE FOR IS VALUE CENTRICITY.
A PROPOSED LAND USE FRAMEWORK
SHOULD EMPHASIZE VALUES AND
OVER SPECIFIED LAND USE
LIMITATIONS WHERE POSSIBLE AND
FINALLY ENGAGE IN REPAIR OF A
HISTORY OF EXCLUSION.
WE EXPECT THE TEAM TO DEVELOP
RECOMMENDATIONS AND POLICIES
THAT UNDO AND OR SEEK TO REPAIR
PAST LAND USE POLICIES AND
REGULATIONS THAT RESULTED IN
THE SCATTERING AND EXCLUSION
OF PEOPLE BASED ON RACE INCOME
OR OTHER CHARACTERISTICS AND
OTHER INEQUITIES.
THAT'S ALL THAT'S ALL I'LL SAY.
BUT FOR THE DISCUSSION COUNCIL
AKMAN THANK YOU FOR THAT
INTRODUCTION COUNCIL MEMBER
DUSH I LOOKED AT THE PROPOSAL
AND I GUESS I JUST WANTED TO
CALL ATTENTION TO THE FACT THAT
IT POINTS TO EQUITY AS A FOCUS
IN THE PLANNING PROCESS AND IN
PARTICULAR EQUITABLE
ENGAGEMENT.
I THINK ONE OF OUR PUBLIC
SPEAKERS EARLIER SPOKE TO THIS
ISSUE BUT MAKING SURE THAT
VOICES THAT ARE FREQUENTLY LEFT
OUT OF THE CONVERSATION ARE
HEARD AND REPRESENTED IN THE
PLAN.
YOU KNOW, WE TEND TO HEAR FROM
THE SAME PEOPLE BUT I THINK WE
WANT TO BE HEARING FROM MEMBERS
OF OUR COMMUNITY THAT DON'T
NECESSARILY KNOW ABOUT CITY
COUNCIL MEETINGS OR WATCH WHAT
WE DISCUSS AND THAT INCLUDES
PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN PRICED OUT
OF OUR COMMUNITY OR WHAT WE'D
LIKE TO LIVE HERE.
THEY ALSO SAY THAT OUR
EQUITABLE ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE
SO APPRECIATE IT JUST SHOWS
THAT THEY ARE YOU ATTUNED I
THINK TO OUR VALUES AS WE MOVE
FORWARD.
I ALSO WANTED TO ADDRESS A
QUESTION THAT CAME UP IN MY
COFFEE HOURS THIS WEEKEND WHICH
WAS IS THE SIGNAL OF A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN MEAN THAT
CITY COUNCIL I GUESS ME
PERSONALLY INTENDS TO SLOW DOWN
DEVELOPMENT IN THE MEANTIME OR
SLOW DOWN ANY KIND OF PROCESS?
AND I GUESS I JUST WANTED TO
SAY I DON'T YOU KNOW, REGARD
THIS AS A STOPPING POINT OR A
SLOWDOWN POINT.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT WE HAVE
TO DO AND WE HAVE TO DO IT
QUICKLY.
BUT I DON'T THINK THAT IT
SHOULD SLOW DOWN OTHER THINGS
THAT ARE IN PROGRESS.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGGS.
I'M HAPPY THAT WE ARE AT THIS
POINT AGAIN WE ARE AT THIS
POINT IN TWENTY NINETEEN AND
MAYOR TAYLOR IS THE ONLY ONE
WHO'S BEEN HERE TWICE FOR THIS
FOR THIS UPDATE.
SO I DID SERVE ON THAT.
I WAS ON PLANNING COMMISSION AT
THAT TIME AND SERVING ON THE
COMMITTEE THAT WENT THROUGH
ANOTHER RFP PROCESS, MADE A
RECOMMENDATION AND ACTUALLY
HAPPENED TO BE THE SAME
CONSULTANT THAT WAS RECOMMENDED
THREE, FOUR YEARS AGO NOW.
SO IT'S INTERESTING THAT THEY
HAVE RISEN TO THE TO THE TOP
TWICE IN A ROW AND REASSURING
AS I MENTIONED, THIS IS
CURRENTLY WE HAVE A VAST ARRAY
OF DOCUMENTS THAT MAKE UP OUR
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
IT'S ACTUALLY EIGHT CURRENT
DOCUMENTS AND 18 RESOURCE
DOCUMENTS.
SO EVEN MORE THAN THE 17 THAT
SHE MENTIONED.
BUT THEY ARE OFTEN CONFLICTING
AND AND OUT OF DATE.
SO THEY AS OUR MEMO MENTIONS
ARE BASED ON PLANNING WORK THAT
WAS FOR SOME OF THEM 30 YEARS
AGO.
SO THIS PROCESS IS LONG OVERDUE
.
I'M EXCITED TO SEE WHAT WE END
UP WITH AT THE END OF IT.
BUT BASICALLY I MEAN THIS IS
THIS IS AN ONGOING PROCESS AND
AT THE END OF THIS WE'RE GOING
TO HAVE WORK TO DO IN TERMS
OF HOW DOES THIS INFLUENCE THE
UPDATE TO OUR OUR ORDINANCES.
SO I'M EXCITED TO SEE WHAT OUR
WHAT OUR VISION IS THAT OUR
COMMUNITY HAS BASED ON THE
VALUES THAT WE HAVE.
BUT THERE'S A LOT OF WORK IN
FRONT OF US I'D HOPE TO BE AT
THE POINT WHERE WE WOULD BE
DOING THOSE ORDINANCE CHANGES
ABOUT NOW BUT WE'LL BE DOING
THIS IN A COUPLE OF YEARS.
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF FAIR
POSED IT IS APPROVED SEE NINE
RESOLUTION TO RESCIND
RESOLUTION TO TWENTY OR TWENTY
TWO THREE SEVEN 443 WITH GREAT
LAKES AIR REPAIR BEACON
AVIATION AND TO APPROVE THE
LEASE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE
CITY AND AN INVASION GROUP LLC
FOR CORPORATE HANGAR LOCATED AT
THE NRA MUNICIPAL AIRPORT WITH
MY COUNTERPART AND SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGGS
DISCUSSION PLEASE WITH CNN
COUNCIL MEMBER OH SORRY MR.
TONY.
THANK YOU.
WE HAVE A STAFF REDUCTION FOR
THIS ITEM.
MR. KARL-HENRIK IS AVAILABLE
AND WILL HANDLE THE
INTRODUCTION.
>> YES.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS MATT KOHANA FROM THE
FLEET FACILITIES MANAGER FOR
THE CITY AS WELL AS THE AIRPORT
MANAGER FOR THE CITY AND
RESHAPE THE OPPORTUNITY I DID
RECEIVE FOR QUESTIONS RELATED
TO THIS AGENDA ITEM FROM
COUNCIL MEMBERS.
I JUST LIKE TO GO THROUGH THOSE
.
FIRST QUESTION WAS WHAT HAPPENS
IN THE EVENT THAT AARON
AVIATION ISN'T ABLE TO FIND A
NEW FBO PARTNER AND IT'S GOOD
TO TO REPORT THAT AARON
AVIATION HAS ACTUALLY ALREADY
REACHED AN AGREEMENT WITH ACE
AIRCRAFT TO PROVIDE FBO
SERVICES IN ANN ARBOR.
THESE AIRCRAFT WHICH IS ONE
OF THE TWO REMAINING PROPOSALS
FROM THE RFP TWENTY ONE
NINETEEN HAS PURCHASED THE
MATERIALS SUPPLIES EQUIPMENT
FROM THE OUTGOING FBO AVIATION
CENTER AVIATION CENTER HAS ALSO
TRANSFERRED THEIR SIX LEASES
BRIDGES ADJACENT HANGARS TO ACE
AIRCRAFT IS THE AIRCRAFT ZONE.
MY AIR ANNOUNCER, LONGTIME
PILOT FLIGHT INSTRUCTOR PILOT
AT THE AIRPORT.
HE'S ALSO CURRENTLY THE
PRESIDENT OF THE NRA FLIERS AND
OPERATES TWO LOCAL BUSINESSES.
SECOND QUESTION WAS WHAT
CRITERIA WERE PART OF THE
ORIGINAL RECOMMENDATION TO
GRANT THE LEASE TO GREAT LAKES
AIR REPAIR DBA BEACON AVIATION
.
SO THE AIRPORT ADVISORY
COMMITTEE HAS BEEN TRYING TO
FIND THE RIGHT FBO OPERATOR FOR
THE AIRPORT OVER A PERIOD
OF ABOUT THREE YEARS THROUGH TO
RFP PROCESSES.
THE PROPOSAL FROM HIREANN AND
FISCHLER WHICH ENDED UP BEING
THE GREAT LAKES AIR BEACON
AVIATION WAS RECOMMENDED BY THE
AIRPORT'S ADVISORY COMMITTEE
FOR SEVERAL REASONS.
THE PROPOSAL BENEFITED USERS
OF THE AIRPORT BY PROVIDING A
COMPETITIVE FBO ENVIRONMENT.
THE PROPOSERS BROUGHT A GOOD
MIX OF BUSINESS EXPERIENCE AND
THEY WERE THEY WERE PROVIDING
SOME NEW SERVICES TO AIRBNB AND
THEY BRING SOLID FINANCIAL
RESOURCES TO COMPLETE THE
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS TO THE
BUILDING WITH NO AIRPORT
CONTRIBUTIONS.
>> THE THIRD QUESTION WAS WAS
THE AIRPORT ADVISORY COMMITTEE
PART OF THIS DECISION?
IF NOT, WHY?
THE AIRPORT ADVISORY HAS BEEN
AN ACTIVE PARTICIPANT IN THE
PLAN TO REDEVELOP THE SITE FOR
MANY YEARS.
MEMBERS INCLUDING THOSE WHO
SERVED ON THE SUBCOMMITTEE THAT
WAS DEVELOPED FOR THIS SPECIFIC
PROPOSAL PROCESS HAVE GONE
THROUGH TWO RFP PROCESSES,
REVIEWED MULTIPLE PROPOSALS AND
INTERVIEWED MULTIPLE PROPOSALS
ON THE PREFERRED PROPOSAL
OF RFP TWENTY ONE NINETEEN.
THE LAST PROPOSAL WE DID
WHISPER AVIATION WITHDREW THE
APPLICATION.
THE AIRPORT ADVISORY COMMITTEE
TASKED THE SUBCOMMITTEE TO COME
BACK WITH RECOMMENDATIONS ON
HOW TO MOVE FORWARD.
THAT RECOMMENDATION INCLUDED
REEVALUATING THE REMAINING TWO
PROPOSALS FROM RFP TWENTY ONE
NINETEEN AND OPENING UP TO
OTHER POTENTIAL PROPOSED THAT
HAD EXPRESSED INTEREST ONCE
THEY BECAME AWARE THAT WAS FOR
AVIATION WITHDREW THE
SUBCOMMITTEE REEVALUATED THE
REMAINING PROPOSALS FROM CIVIL
AVIATION AND AIRCRAFT AND NEWLY
RECEIVED PROPOSAL FROM AIR
FORCE ONE.
THE SUBCOMMITTEE RECOMMENDED TO
THE AIRPORT ADVISORY COMMITTEE
WHO CONCURRED THAT MADE 22
MEETING TO MOVE THE HAIR
FORESWEAR PROPOSAL INTO THE DUE
DILIGENCE PHASE.
AND IF IT DIDN'T BREAK THROUGH
THE DUE DILIGENCE THEN TO
PURSUE THE PROPOSAL WITH ACE
AIRCRAFT.
SO AS IT RELATES TO THIS MOST
RECENT ACTIVITY, THE REQUE
FROM DALE HAUSSLER TO PUT THE
LEASE INHERENCE COMPANY NAME
HIREANN AVIATION GROUP CAME ON
MARCH 22ND OF THIS YEAR A WEEK
AFTER THE AIRPORT ADVISORY
COMMITTEE IS MEETING AND NEARLY
TWO MONTHS BEFORE THEIR NEXT
SCHEDULED MEETING WHILE A
SPECIAL MEETING COULD HAVE BEEN
CALLED WITH DISCUSSIONS WITH
THE CHAIR OF THE COMMITTEE, THE
INCLUSION OF ACE AIRCRAFT INTO
THE AIR AND AVIATION PROPOSAL
WAS CONSISTENT WITH THE
RECOMMENDATIONS PREVIOUSLY MADE
BY THE AIRPORT ADVISORY
COMMITTEE ACS, A KNOWN
COMMODITY.
THEY WERE A KNOWN COMMODITY AND
THEY WERE KNOWN PROPOSAL TO THE
AIRPORT ADVISORY COMMITTEE
HAVING BEEN ALREADY AN
APPLICANT THROUGH THE RFP
PROCESS, THE LAST QUESTION WAS
WHAT'S THE STANDARD PROCESS FOR
RECOMMENDING LEASE AGREEMENTS
WITH A PARTICULAR PARTNER?
THERE'S REALLY NO ESTABLISHED
PROCESS FOR THIS SITUATION AT
THE AIRPORT.
MOST OF OUR LEASES ARE HANGARS
BOX HANGARS AND SOME PRIVATE
HANGAR LAND LEASES.
THESE ARE FORMATTED LEASES.
THEY'RE STANDARDIZED, THEY'VE
BEEN DEVELOPED BY THE CITY
ATTORNEY'S OFFICE AT SOME POINT
IN THE PAST HAVE BEEN APPROVED
BY CITY COUNCIL.
THOSE ARE THE BULK OF THE
LEASES THAT WE HANDLE.
THOSE ARE HANDLED
ADMINISTRATIVELY AND THEY
USUALLY ARE SEALED OFF OF AN
OPERATING OR OPERATING OFF OF A
WAITING LIST FOR HANGAR SPACE.
WHAT CITY COUNCIL DOES C IS
LEASE EXTENSIONS FOR CORPORATE
HANGARS.
SOME AMENDMENTS, THOSE TYPE
OF THINGS WHEN NECESSARY?
WE DON'T SEE A LOT OF THAT
BECAUSE WE DON'T GET A LOT
OF TURNOVER BUT WHEN WE DO WE
DO SEE IT IS TYPICALLY AN
AMENDMENT OR A RENEWAL OF AN
EXISTING LEASE FOR THE SAME
TIME THE SITUATION IS IS VERY
DIFFERENT IN REGARDS TO
ACTUALLY THE SIXTEEN PLUS YEARS
I'VE BEEN THE AIRPORT
MANAGER.
IT'S THE FIRST TIME I CAN
REMEMBER THAT WE'VE BROUGHT IN
A NEW CORPORATE ENTITY FOR A
CORPORATE HANGAR AGAIN MOST
OF THE TIME ACTUALLY SINCE I'VE
BEEN HERE ALL THE TIME IT'S
JUST BEEN RENEWAL OR AMENDMENTS
TO LEASES THE SAME TENANT
STAYING IN IN THE SAME BUILDING
SO THIS ONE WAS A LITTLE
DIFFERENT SITUATION AND AGAIN
IT'S JUST NOT ONE THAT'S A
UNIQUE SITUATION NOW ONE
OF HAVE A STANDARD PROCESS FOR
SO THAT WAS THE RESPONSE TO
THOSE WERE QUESTIONS THAT I WAS
PROVIDED.
>> WE HAVE TO ADDRESS
ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS
COUNTERMARCH.
THANK YOU COUNCILOR.
RIGHT.
I JUST WANTED TO EXPRESS MY
APPRECIATION FOR THE VERY
THOROUGH RESPONSE BASICALLY I
JUST KNEW THAT THE FBO
EXPERIENCED PARTNER FROM THE
LAST ONE SEEMED TO HOLD A LOT
OF WEIGHT.
SO I'M REALLY RELIEVED TO FIND
THAT THERE IS A NEW ONE THAT'S
IDENTIFIED AND THANK YOU
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS.
YEAH I SINCE I SERVED AS ONE
OF THE LIAISONS TO THE AIRPORT
ADVISORY COMMISSION I WANT TO
ALSO SAY THANKS FOR THOSE
CLARIFICATION ABOUT THE
CHANGES.
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO NOTE
THAT IN TERMS OF THE CHANGES
THAT WERE SEEN BEFORE US
TONIGHT WE ARE REALLY JUST
SEEING FAIRLY MINOR CHANGES IN
TERMS OF THE CONTRACT IN TERMS
OF NAME AND DATE.
I THINK THERE'S ONE OTHER SMALL
TWEAK BUT IN TERMS OF THE THE
ACTUAL CONTRACT WE APPROVED
BACK IN NOVEMBER, IT'S AN
IDENTICAL CONTRACT.
OTHERWISE I APPRECIATE THE
TRANSPARENCY OF THIS PROCESS
AND I THINK THE FACT THAT THAT
WE AS COUNCIL HAVE ARE
APPROVING THIS CONTRACT, WE'RE
GOING TO APPROVE THE CONTRACT
BUT HAVE YOU KNOW THAT THIS IS
COMING BACK TO US AS A.
AMENDMENT THE FACT THAT IT'S
GONE THROUGH THE AIRPORT
ADVISORY COMMISSION IT'S BEEN A
YOU KNOW, WE'VE SEEN DUE
DILIGENCE AT EVERY STAGE OF THE
PROCESS SO I CERTAINLY DON'T
HAVE ANY CONCERNS DESPITE SOME
SOME COMMENTS THAT HAVE BEEN
MADE IN THE COMMUNITY ON THAT
ON THAT POINT IN TERMS OF THE
PROCESS JUST I REITERATE THERE
WERE FOUR MEMBERS OF THE
AIRPORT ADVISORY COMMISSION
THAT HAVE SERVED ON THIS REVIEW
COMMITTEE THROUGHOUT THE
PROCESS.
SO AIRPORT ADVISORY COMMISSION
HAS BEEN ENGAGED IN THAT.
AND THEN ONE OF THE GREAT
THINGS ABOUT THIS THAT I THINK
I WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT WE ALL
RECOGNIZE IS THAT WE ARE
GETTING TO TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND
DOLLARS WORTH OF REQUIRED
BUILDING AND BUILDING
IMPROVEMENTS TO THESE TO THIS
HANGAR AT THE AIRPORT.
SO THAT'S THAT'S MONEY THAT WE
AREN'T SPENDING AS A CITY TO
IMPROVE OUR FACILITIES BUT
RATHER A PRIVATE ENTITY IS
COMING IN AND MAKE MAKING THAT
INVESTMENT IN OUR FACILITY
FACILITIES IN OUR HANGARS AND
AT THE END OF END OF THEIR
LEASE THEY WILL NOT OWN THAT
BUILDING.
SO THOSE ARE INVESTMENTS THAT
THEY'RE MAKING ON CITY PROPERTY
AND THEN PROVIDING SERVICES FOR
FOR THE NEXT 20 YEARS.
SO IT'S IT'S GREAT FOR THE
FOLKS WHO ARE USING THE AIRPORT
AND GREAT FOR THE CITY.
THE DISCUSSION IN FAVOR POST IT
IS APPROVED WITH 11 COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT SATISFYING THE
VOTE REQUIREMENT.
WE NOW COME TO A PUBLIC
HEARING.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY AND
THE COMMUNITY ABOUT THE
SPECIFIC ITEM ON THE AGENDA.
THAT IS TO SAY THE SPECIFIC
SUBJECT OF THE PUBLIC HEARING
TO SPEAK AT A PUBLIC HEARING
YOU NEED NOT HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BUT YOUR SPEECH MUST
RELATE TO THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT
MATTER OF THE PUBLIC HEARING
SPEAKERS BOTH HERE AND ONLINE
WILL HAVE THREE MINUTES IN
WHICH TO SPEAK SO IN EACH
INSTANCE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION TO
THE TIME OUR CLERK WILL NOTIFY
YOU WHEN THIRTY SECONDS ARE
REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR TIME IS
EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME IS
EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
REMARKS AND SEE THE FLOOR
PUBLIC NO ONE AND AUDIENCE TO
AMEND CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE ZONING
REZONING OF TWO POINT FIVE
ACRES AND PUBLIC LAND TO PUDI
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT 415 WEST WASHINGTON DC
ZONING AND SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS 415 WASHINGTON IS
THERE ANYONE ELSE WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING?
PLEASE JUST COME ON UP
.
MY NAME IS AND CALVIN I'D LIKE
TO TALK TO YOU ABOUT THE
DEVELOPMENT OF 415 WEST
WASHINGTON.
JUST A FEW BRIEF COMMENTS.
THE PROPOSED BUILDING IS TOO
TALL.
PLEASE APPROVE A LOWER HEIGHT
LIMIT PLEASE CONSIDER ALTERNATE
DIVS TO A HIGH RISE BUILDING.
I BELIEVE CITY COUNCIL SHOULD
REPRESENT AND SUPPORT CITIZENS
WHO LIVE NEAR ANY NEW
DEVELOPMENT.
THANK YOU.
THANK JUST COME ON UP.
FIRST OF ALL I WANT TO SAY HOW
SORRY I AM FOR THOSE WHO KNEW
AND LOVED YOU TO THEM VERY
SORRY FOR YOUR LOSS.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS MUFFY MACKENZIE AND
I LIVE AT TWO SEVENTEEN THIRD
STREET.
I AM ONE OF THE IN THE
OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT
THAT ABOUT THE 415 PROPERTY.
I DO WANT TO SAY THAT I HAVE A
PROBLEM WITH THE PD PD CHANGE
AND IT'S MOSTLY BECAUSE I THINK
THAT THE THAT THE POINT ABOUT
REMEDIATING THE CONTAMINATED
BROWNFIELD SITE I'VE ASKED THIS
MANY TIMES WHERE IS THE URGENCY
TO CLEAN UP THESE DANGEROUS
CARCINOGEN PERSONS TOXINS?
SORRY I'M A LITTLE NERVOUS.
THE CITY IS KNOWN ABOUT THESE
TOXINS FOR MANY YEARS NOW WE
FIND OUT THAT THERE ARE MORE
AND THE PLUME THAT IS SPREADING
WHY ARE WE WAITING FOR WOULD BE
DEVELOPER WHY AREN'T WE
CLEANING THESE TOXINS UP
YESTERDAY WE WERE TOLD THERE
WILL BE TOO EXPENSIVE.
WELL HOW MUCH WE'VE BEEN ASKING
FOR MONTHS THE DATA AND THE
FACTS ON THE COST AND NOT
RECEIVED ANY STRAIGHTFORWARD
ANSWER.
WE'VE HEARD MILLIONS WE'VE
HEARD ONE TO THREE MILLION.
BUT HOW MUCH WHERE'S THE
TRANSPARENCY ON HOW DO WE KNOW
IT'S TOO EXPENSIVE?
WE DON'T KNOW HOW MUCH IT'S
GOING TO COST.
ALSO, HASN'T THE DENHA BEEN
COLLECTING MONEY FOR YEARS THIS
PARKING LOT WHERE IS THAT
MONEY?
WHY COULDN'T SOME OF THAT MONEY
BE USED FOR THE CLEANUP?
WHAT ABOUT THE MILLIONS
OF DOLLARS THAT THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT GAVE TO THE CITY AND
WHAT THE CITY RECEIVED ONE
OF THE COUNCIL MEMBERS AND THE
PLANNING COMMISSION A FEW WEEKS
AGO SAID THAT THAT MONEY WAS
BEING USED FOR WORTHY PROJECTS.
WELL, WHAT COULD BE MORE WORTHY
THAN THE HEALTH AND SAFETY
OF OUR CHILDREN?
OUR NEIGHBORS ARE THE THE
RESIDENTS OF THE CITY, THE
PEOPLE WHO WORK IN THE YMCA
EIGHT TO TEN HOURS A DAY WHO
HAVE TOXINS NEARBY I DON'T KNOW
CLEANING UP THE CONTAMINATION
NOW SEEMS TO BE THE MOST WORTHY
ITEM ON MY AGENDA.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT YOU ALL THINK
ABOUT THAT.
WHAT IT BOILS DOWN TO IS THAT
FOR FIFTEEN AS A CITIZEN
PROPERTY THE CITY IN THE COUNTY
CONTRIBUTED TO THE
CONTAMINATION AND OVER THE
YEARS THE CITY HAS A DUTY AND A
RESPONSIBILITY TO ITS RESIDENTS
TO CLEAN IT UP AND CLEAN IT UP.
NOW NOT WAITING FOR SOME WOULD
BE DEVELOPER.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR YOUR
TIME.
THANK YOU.
ANYONE ELSE HOUSE WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING.
IS THERE ANYONE I WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HERE WE
HAVE A NUMBER OF CALLERS ONLINE
THAT I'VE DISCOVERED.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
YEAH.
HI.
THIS IS ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ FROM
THE FOURTH WARD.
IT WOULD BE GREAT TO SEE THIS
BLIGHT REMEDIATED AND
REDEVELOPED.
IT HAS BEEN CRUMBLING AND
LEACHING CHEMICALS INTO OUR
WATERSHED FOR FAR TOO LONG.
I DON'T WANT TO SEE THIS
DRAGGED ON FOR ANOTHER DECADE
OR TWO WHILE WE TRY TO FIND A
MONEY TO CLEAN IT UP OURSELVES.
I URGE THE CITY TO MOVE FORWARD
WITH THIS PUDI AND FIND A
DEVELOPER WILLING TO TAKE ON
THE TASK.
THIS PLAN IS ACCEPTABLE IF
ANYTHING I DON'T THINK THE
PROPOSED REDEVELOPMENT IS
INTENSE ENOUGH.
I WOULD RATHER SEE A SHALLOWER
SET BACK FROM WASHINGTON AND
MORE HYPE BUT I THINK THIS IS A
REASONABLE COMPROMISE.
I LIKED THAT THE FLOOD FRINGE
CONCERNS ARE BEING TAKEN INTO
ACCOUNT AND THAT WE ARE
ATTEMPTING TO PRESERVE THE
IMPORTANT CHIMNEYSWEEP HABITAT
.
I'M GLAD IT WILL PAY INTO THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND OR
PERHAPS EVEN PROVIDE SOME
AFFORDABLE UNITS ON SITE.
SO I UNDERSTAND THIS IS
UNLIKELY DUE TO THE FLOOD
ISSUES.
I THINK IT'S ENTIRELY
APPROPRIATE FOR THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND I LOOK FORWARD
TO SEEING THIS HAPPEN.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
MICHEL HUGHES, YOU HAVE A
COMMENT.
HI.
I'M EXCITED ABOUT THIS
DEVELOPMENT.
I HOPE THAT WE CAN FIND A
DEVELOPER TO DO IT SOON AS LONG
AS I REMEMBER THIS PLACE HAS
BEEN AN ABANDONED BOARDED UP
BUILDING AND I'VE LIVED HERE
SINCE NINETEEN NINETY EIGHT SO
I'M GLAD TO SEE THE LAND BEING
PUT TO BETTER USE TO ADDRESS
OUR HOUSING CRISIS AND SO I
WANT IT TO HAPPEN QUICKLY AND
SO I HOPE THAT NOBODY TRIES TO
PUT ANY ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS
ON THIS DEVELOPMENT.
I HEARD SOME TALK AT THE LAST
MEETING FROM SOME COUNCIL
MEMBERS ABOUT
QUICKLY SLAPPING
ON SOME SOME SUSTAINABLE
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
REQUIREMENTS THAT WOULD MAKE IT
HARDER AND SLOWER TO FIND A
DEVELOPER AND I HOPE THAT THAT
DOESN'T HAPPEN IN A HAPHAZARD
MANNER AND THAT WE'RE ABLE TO
GET THE REMEDIATION AND THE
DEVELOPMENT DONE QUICKLY.
I ALSO WANTED TO SAY THAT OUR
COMMUNITY DESERVES BETTER THAN
TO HEAR HOLOCAUST DENIAL AT
THESE CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
LUIS VASQUEZ, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
>> YES, I DO.
THANK YOU FOR THE OPPORTUNITY
AND OUR CITY COUNCIL I AM VERY
MUCH IN FAVOR OF REDEVELOPMENT.
OF COURSE IT WAS WASHINGTON.
I ONLY WISH THAT WE COULD
REDUCE THE SETBACKS AND MAKE
THIS PROJECT TALLER THAN WHAT
MAY BE PROPOSED AND YES, WE DO
NEED TO GET THIS PROPERTY
CLEANED UP AND WHAT BETTER THAN
TO HAVE A DEVELOPER DO IT ON
THEIR DIME RATHER THAN ON THE
CITY'S DIME THAT THIS PROJECT
IS LONG OVERDUE AND I HOPE WE
MAKE THE BEST OF THIS
OPPORTUNITY.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU
.
CALLER WITH THE PHONE NUMBER
ENDING IN THREE, FOUR OR FIVE.
>> GO AHEAD.
HI, THIS IS KITTY AND I LIVE IN
THE CHIPBOARD.
I'M CALLING IN TO OBJECT TO THE
PROPOSED ZONING OF 415 WHAT
WASHINGTON THERE ARE MANY
REASONS WHY THIS REZONING IS
SITE FROM PUBLIC LAND TO BEING
BE PLANTING IN A DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT SHOULD BE DENIED.
THE SITE IS IN A HISTORIC
DISTRICT AND A PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT DOES NOT CONFORM TO
THIS HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION GUIDELINES.
>> THE SITE IS IN A FLOODPLAIN
AND OUR OWN CITY AND OUR CITY'S
OWN STORMWATER EXPERT JERRY
ACHAK AND OUR STORMWATER AND
FLOODPLAIN PROGRAM COORDINATOR
HAS SAID NOTHING SHOULD BE
BUILT ON THIS SITE ALTHOUGH
CITY PLANNERS AND CERTAIN
MEMBERS OF CITY COUNCIL
PURPOSIVE IN SAYING THERE WILL
BE AFFORDABLE HOUSING ON THE
SITE IS NOT THE CASE.
JENNIFER HUTTLE, EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR OF THE CENTER FOR
HOUSING COMMISSION, HAS SAID
MANY TIMES THAT THIS SITE WILL
NOT HAVE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
EVEN IF THERE IS PAYMENT TO THE
DEVELOPER WILL SIMPLY DISCOUNT
THE PURCHASE PRICE BY THAT
AMOUNT.
ALSO THE SITE IS FULL
OF PAXON'S WHICH SHOULD BE
CLEANED UP BY THE CITY ITSELF
INSTEAD OF WAITING YEARS UNTIL
IT IS DONE BY A DEVELOPER.
CLEAN IT UP NOW PLEASE DO THAT.
REZONE THIS SITE.
IT IS NOT SUITED FOR ANY KIND
OF RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT.
LISTEN TO YOUR CITY EXPERT TAKE
JERRY HANCOX ADVICE ABIDE BY
THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
GUIDELINES DON'T BREATHE ON
THIS PROPERTY.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
CALLER WITH THE PHONE
NUMBER ENDING IN FIVE THREE
FOUR FIVE THREE FOUR.
GO AHEAD.
>> THANK YOU.
THIS IS THOMAS AHLBERG AGAIN.
I SPOKE AT THE FIRST READING
AND QUOTED SOME COMMENTS FROM
THE OUTSIDE PARTS OF THE DC
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE THAT
INDICATE THAT BEYOND ANY DOUBT
WHATSOEVER THIS APPLICATION
DOES NOT MEET THE INTENT
OF QUOTE I'VE BEEN ADVISED BY
AN ATTORNEY HIS OPINION THAT IT
DOES NOT THE LEGAL REQUIREMENTS
OF OUR QUOTE SO I SPOKE EARLIER
ABOUT HONESTY, INTELLECTUAL
HONESTY, ABOUT RESPECTING OUR
LAWS.
LETTER INTENT CLEARLY DOES NOT
RESPECT THE INTENT CODE MAY
VERY WELL NOT MEET THE LETTER
OF THE LAW EITHER, ESPECIALLY
BECAUSE THIS IS A CITY
APPLICATION, NOT A HEALTH
INVESTIGATION.
>> WE SHOULD BE HOLDING
OURSELVES TO THE STANDARD
OF MEETING OUR OWN LOSS.
ADDITIONALLY IN OUR HISTORIC
DISTRICT I HAVE NOT FOLLOWED AS
THE PREVIOUS CALLER SAID, ONE
OF THE THINGS OUR GUIDELINES
SAY IS THAT THIS NEEDS TO BE
DESIGNED TO FIT IN AND BE
COMPATIBLE WITH THE
CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURES IN THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT PRESENTATION
THAT WE'RE GIVEN TO THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION AT
WORKING SESSION NOT AN
APPLICATION THAT IS VOTED ON
BUT WORKING SESSIONS CONTINUE
TO SHOW COMPARISONS TO
STRUCTURES OFF SITE OUTSIDE THE
DISTRICT AND TO NONCONFERENCE
DISTRICT.
THE GUIDELINES ARE CLEAR WE'RE
CONTRIBUTING IS VERY IMPORTANT
AND MEANINGFUL HISTORIC
DISTRICT ORDINANCES.
THIS PROJECT NEEDS TO BE
DESIGNED TO BE COMPATIBLE WITH
BUILDING STRUCTURES IN A
HISTORIC DISTRICT FOREVER AS
WAS INDICATED BY THE PREVIOUS
CALLER, ONE OF THE PREVIOUS
COLLEGE AFFORDABLE HOUSING HERE
IS A PHANTOM.
THIS IS A SITE THAT IS HIGHLY
DESIRABLE LUXURY HOUSING C WITH
OVER KINGSLEE RIGHT NEXT TO THE
TRACKS.
THIS IS EVEN A SUPERIOR SITE.
>> WE'RE TALKING CONDOS OVER
THERE FIVE HUNDRED SEVEN FOOT
THIRTY SECONDS PRICE.
THIS IS GOING TO BE A LUXURY
DEVELOPMENT, SOMETHING LIKE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING SITE OF THE
APARTMENT AND LOSE TRACK OF THE
PURCHASE PRICE FROM WHOEVER
BUYS THE PROJECT.
IF YOU OWN THE PROPERTY AS YOU
AND YOU'RE ACTUALLY BUYING
PROPERTY FOR THE CITY
ENTERTAINMENT, YOU JUST
DISCOUNT THAT IT WILL BE A
PHANTOM AFFORDABLE HOUSING
BENEFIT.
NO REAL LECTURE ON WHAT I'M
ABOUT TO GIVE VERY MUCH TIME.
THANK YOU
CALLER S YOU HAVE A
COMMENT ON.
YES, I WOULD LIKE TO SAY THAT
I'M VERY HAPPY WITH THE THINGS
THAT WE BUILD IN ANN ARBOR TO
HELP THOSE IN NEED.
THE ONE THING I'M NOT HAPPY
ABOUT WE'RE ALLOWING TO BE
BUILT IS A PLATFORM FOR NAZI
PROPAGANDA FROM CERTAIN MEMBERS
OF OUR POPULATION.
IT'S EMBARRASSINGLY QUIET IN
THAT ROOM WHEN HENRY WHATEVER
HIS FACE WAS OPENLY DENYING THE
HOLOCAUST AS FASCISM LOOMS OVER
THE COUNTRY, WE NEED PUSH BACK.
>> YOU CAN USE YOUR FIRST
METRICS TO TELL HIM THAT HE IS
EXCUSE ME PLEASE.
>> I'M SORRY THE THE PUBLIC
HEARINGS FOR THE THE ZONING YOU
CAN'T DEFEAT FASCISM BY WORKING
INSIDE THE SYSTEM.
>> HAVE A NICE NIGHT.
>> THANK YOU
.
CALLER ID THE PHONE NUMBER
ENDING IN FOUR ONE ONE.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT.
GO AHEAD.
OH YES WE CAN.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
THIS IS JUST MORE WORK BUT I
SEE YOU AS A FORMER MEMBER
OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND
I WAS ASKED BY THIS
REPRESENTATIVE TO ASK MY TASK
FORCE WHICH REVIEWED THE
POTENTIAL ON SCREEN RIGHT NOW
KNOWN AS A TREE LINE.
THAT'S AN ILLUSION.
THAT'S ANOTHER TOMBO.
IT'S CENTERED AROUND THE THREE
CITY PROPERTIES THAT AT FIRST
SO WHICH ONE WITH ME AND 415
WAS WASHINGTON.
>> OUR TASK FORCE CAME UP WITH
THREE RECOMMENDATIONS FOR THE
SITE.
THERE WAS ONE ARCHITECTURE
WHICH SHOULD BE COMPLETELY
BUILT ON AND THE OTHER WAS OPEN
WHICH I DISCUSS AND THE OTHER
WAS SORT OF A BLENDED EMPHASIS
AND I THINK THAT'S ONE THIS IS
WHAT IS FINALLY WHAT IS COMING
BEFORE YOU I UNDERSTAND SOME
COMPROMISES AND THE WILLINGNESS
TO TAKE CARE OF TOPICS LIKE
YOUR SUSPICIONS AND WE LOOKED
AT ABOUT THOSE ISSUES CERTAINLY
THERE ON ITS OWN PATH
INDUSTRIAL AREA.
SO THERE'S GOING TO BE SOME
PROBLEMS THERE AND YES, IT'S
SOMETHING THAT SHOULD BE LOOKED
AT BLOCKING FOR YOUR YOUR STAFF
HAS BEEN VLADIK ABOUT
PROTECTING NATURAL SYSTEMS.
>> AND IF I'M LISTENING TO YOU
GUYS, CAPTAIN, I'M LOOKING AT
THE TREND THAT EVEN MANY OF THE
PUBLIC FIGURES NO MATTER I GET
IT
YOU GUYS ARE GREAT IN TERMS
OF SENDING A PROGRESSIVE CITY.
YOU'RE ON BOARD WITH IT.
YOU'RE AND MAYBE YOU YOU'RE
THERE AND BUT THE ONE THING
THAT YOU REALLY ARE IS THAT
YOU'RE GOING TO DEVELOPMENT
DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT.
THAT'S GREAT IF YOU WANT TO
MOVE FORWARD WITH IT, THAT'S
FINE.
AND IN TERMS OF GETTING
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN, YES, WE
SHOULD BE INCORPORATING ALL
VOICES.
WE'D BE LOOKING AT ALL FACTORS
AND ONE THING YOU CANNOT IGNORE
IS THE ENVIRONMENT OR NATURAL
SYSTEMS.
WE NEED TO RESPECT OUR
FLOODPLAINS IN THE FLOODWAY
WHEN I STAND THE SCRUTINY WE
CAN FORCE BOB BY AND A
PLURALITY OF THE MEMBERS LOOK
AT THE OPEN EMPHASIS WHICH WAS
PROTECT OUR FLOODPLAIN AND OUR
FRONT STRUCTURE AND WE BELIEVE
THAT THE BEST WAY FOR THE TREE
LINE OR THE GREEN WAY WAS TO
USE THE SAFE KIND OF CENTERS
FOR A PARK LIKE SYSTEM THIRTY.
YES, IT'S GOING TO BE YES IT'S
GOING TO BE A CIRCUMSTANCE
WHERE ARE THE KIDS GOING TO
HAVE THE BURDEN OF THE AND IF
THE SITUATION IS NOT GOING TO
GRANT GOING AWAY, WHAT IS YOUR
RESPONSIBILITY?
I THINK IN THE END I THINK THE
BETTER THE CITY REALLY NEEDS TO
GET A JOB IS PROTECTING ITS
NATURAL SYSTEMS CONVERSATION BY
DOING SO WE PUT THE WHAT FRENCH
I DON'T THINK WE SHOULD BE
FORWARD WITH THIS PROJECT IN
TERMS OF THIS ISSUE AND OTHERS
THAT PEOPLE MENTIONED.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ROSS SMITH, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT IF TO DO EMIRATES IN
THE FIRST WORD THIS SITE IS ON
MY WAY TO DOWNTOWN AND IT'S
QUITE FRANKLY NICE EYESORE
CURRENTLY I AM STRONGLY IN
FAVOR OF THIS CHANGE.
I REALLY CAN'T IMAGINE THE ONE
DEFENDING WHAT THEY'RE BUILDING
AND APPARENTLY IS THE CAR
STORAGE THE SAME ALL THE RIGHT
THINGS FROM THE CITY COUNCIL ON
THIS AND I WOULD LOVE TO SEE
THE DEVELOPER FOOT THE BILL FOR
CLEANING UP THE SITE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
ARE WITH THE PHONE NUMBER
ENDING IN ONE NINE FOUR.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT HOLLER
ONE NINE FOUR GO AHEAD.
HI THIS IS RITA MOBILE CALLING
FROM 621 STREET AND I WANT TO
CALL OUT THE INITIATION OF THE
PROCESS TO DEVELOP THE SITE
WHICH ACKNOWLEDGED THE
COMPLEXITY OF THE MEETING AND
SO THAT THE CITY HAS PLANS FOR
DEVELOPMENT AND IT IS HAS HAD
PROBABLY TOO MANY FEATURES THAT
HAVE TO BE ADJUSTED TO MAKE IT
SUCH A TOP PRIORITY AT THIS
POINT.
MY OPINION MY BIGGEST CONCERN
HAS TO DO WITH PUBLIC HEALTH
AND SAFETY AND THE OVERLAPPING
ISSUES FLUFFINESS WHICH IS AN
UNKNOWN AND THAT MY AND ONE
STRANGE AREA THAT ENDLESSLY SAT
IN THE CONTEXT OF CLIMATE
CHANGE AND OUR CLIMATE
EMERGENCY DURING WHICH WE ARE
MORE AND FREQUENT, INTENSIVELY
INTENSE AND INTENSE WOULD BE
HAD IN MIND BECAUSE WHAT'S BEEN
PROPOSED IS ONLY WHAT'S BEEN
KNOWN TO PEOPLE WHO WE JUST
DON'T KNOW THE POTENTIAL FOR
THE FLOODING.
BUT OUR STORMWATER MANAGER HAS
SAID THAT THIS PLAN IS ONE THAT
WILL BE IS OPPOSED TO THE
HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN
FOR THE CITY AND THAT MAKES ME
REALLY CONCERNED FOR SAFETY
OF THE POTENTIAL RESIDENTS AT
THAT SITE AS WELL AS THOSE WHO
MAY BE CALLED INTO ACTION TO
SUPPORT THEM IN THE CASE OF THE
DISASTER.
COMBINED WITH THAT IS THE RISK
OF CONTAMINATION THAT WE KNOW
AND I FEEL LIKE THE ATTENTION
HAS BEEN PAID SPECIFICALLY TO
THE BOUNDARIES OF THE SITE AND
THE CONTAMINATION ON THE SITE
WHEN WE KNOW THAT THE
CONTAMINATION IS A SURFACE AREA
I'M SUBSURFACE AREA AROUND THE
SITE IN A HOLDING BOTH NOT ONLY
THE THE CONTAMINANTS BUT THE
PLUME OF TCE THAT FLOWS IN THE
DIRECTION OF THAT THAT HASN'T
BEEN ADEQUATELY ADDRESSED.
WE DON'T KNOW WHAT THE PLAN
WILL HELP IN IN TERMS
OF CONTROL OF THE CONTAMINATION
OVER TIME AND THE CONTROL
OF THE REMEDIATION 30 SECONDS
AND THAT HAS BEEN THANK YOU
ALSO.
WELL, I JUST THINK THAT IT'S
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT WON'T
GIVE MONEY TO SUPPORT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN THIS
PLACE BECAUSE OF THAT RISK
OF FLOODING THEN I THINK THAT
IT'S PROBABLY A RISKY PLACE FOR
ANY PERSON TO BE LIVING AND I
SUPPORT THE OPEN SPACE APPROACH
TO SOMETHING BECAUSE IS
COMPATIBLE WITH THE ACTUAL
NATURAL FUTURE OF THE SITE FOR
SOME TIME ON THE TO THE FUTURE
.
THINK YOU RANDOM CHANCE DO HAVE
A COMMENT?
I HAVE FRIENDS AND AGAIN WEST
LAOGHAIRE TOWN FORT WORTH I
DON'T HAVE MUCH TO ADD IN
SUPPORT OF THIS THAT OTHER
PEOPLE HAVEN'T SAID.
I JUST WANT TO REGISTER MY
SUPPORT AND ENCOURAGE COUNCIL
TO KEEP THIS RELATIVELY SIMPLE
SO THAT WE CAN TRY TO GET A
DEVELOPER AND GET THIS STUFF
CLEANED UP AS QUICKLY AS
POSSIBLE RATHER THAN SETTING
THE CITY MONEY ON FIRE TO DO
IT.
I WOULD MUCH PREFER HAVING
SOMEONE ELSE DO IT WHILE WE
ALSO GET SOME HOUSING ON GET
EXCITED ABOUT THIS TO SEE IT
PROCEED FORWARD.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
FOR LEAVING.
I WISH I LEAVE 211 3RD STREET
MY PROPERTY BACKS RIGHT UP TO
FOUR FIFTEEN WEST WASHINGTON I
HAVE BEEN THERE FOR FORTY FIVE
YEARS.
I HAVE WATCHED THE CITY NEGLECT
THIS SITE FOR ALL OF THOSE
YEARS AND WHAT WE HAVE TODAY IS
A BLIGHTED SITE THE
RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CITY AND
NOW WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A
DEVELOPMENT THAT'S GOING TO
CREATE A WALL BETWEEN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD IN DOWNTOWN AND
THEN THE CITY IS SAYING I WANT
SOMEBODY ELSE TO PAY FOR THIS
BECAUSE IT'S TOO EXPENSIVE FOR
US.
WE HAVE NEGLECTED THE SITE FOR
ALL OF THESE YEARS.
WE HAVE CONTAMINATED IT YET WE
DON'T WANT TO PAY FOR AND WE
WANT TO PUT PEOPLE AT RISK BY
BUILDING IN A FLOOD PLAIN.
I AM TOTALLY CONFUSED BY THIS.
WE HAVE THE ABILITY TO BE ABLE
TO MAKE THIS A TRANSITION FROM
A NEIGHBORHOOD TO DOWNTOWN, NOT
PUT UP A WALL BETWEEN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND DOWNTOWN.
WE HAVE A HISTORIC DISTRICT
THAT IS SUPPOSED TO PROVIDE
THAT YET THIS ORGANIZATION IS
TRYING TO TEAR THAT DOWN AND
WORK THEIR WAY AROUND THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION.
I'M AGHAST AT THIS.
THIS IS JUST TO ME IT'S BEYOND
COMPREHENSION THAT THE CITY
WILL NEGLECT ITS OWN
RESPONSIBILITY.
LOOK TO PUT IT UPON A DEVELOPER
AND THEN WALK AWAY HAPPY
BECAUSE GEE, WE PUT UP THIS BIG
WALL.
WE CIRCUMVENTED THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION.
WE REQUIRE ALL OF THE PEOPLE
THAT LIVE IN THIS HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO ABIDE BY THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
RIGHT.
OK, IMPROVEMENTS THAT I MAKE ON
MY PROPERTY HAS TO CONFORM.
YOU HAVE THE CITY IS TRYING TO
CIRCUMVENT THOSE THINGS.
AS YOU CAN SEE, I'M A LITTLE
ANGRY ABOUT THIS TO WATCH HOW
THIS IS JUST GONE RIGHT ALONG
MY NEIGHBORS I HAVE BEEN
WORKING FOR WHAT A YEAR AND A
HALF TO BE ABLE TO BRING THIS
TO OUR COUNCIL MEMBERS TO
DISCUSS THIS TO BRING THINGS TO
THE TABLE HERE AND WHAT WE GET
IS THIS I WOULD I REALLY WOULD
LIKE TO SEE THIS COUNCIL TURN
AROUND ON THIS PROJECT.
THIS DOES NOT BELONG IN THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD.
IT DOES NOT CONTRIBUTE TO THE
HISTORIC HOUSES THAT ARE THAT
WE LIVE IN AND THAT HAVE BEEN
PART OF OUR LIVES FOR MANY,
MANY YEARS.
THOSE HOMES ARE NOT A COMMODITY
.
THEY ARE OUR HOMES.
THEY HAVE BEEN OUR PASSION FOR
DECADES.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
COLOR ON ZONE PHONE NO ENDING
IN FIVE FIVE SIX CALL FROM FROM
REAL KEY FROM THE FIFTH WORD
AGAIN I WOULD ECHO THE COMMENTS
MADE BY THE OPPONENTS OF THIS
RESOLUTION MANY GOOD POINTS
HAVE BEEN MADE.
I THINK THE ONE KEY ONE THAT I
WOULD LIKE TO SAY IS THAT CAN
YOU REALLY EXPECT A DEVELOPER
TO CLEAN UP ANYTHING BEYOND
THIS SITE?
IT SEEMS
TO ME THAT THE CITY IS
GOING TO HAVE TO CLEAN UP THE
PLUME THAT SURROUNDS AND HOW
ARE YOU GOING TO COORDINATE
THAT CLEANUP WITHOUT HAVING
CONTROL OF THE EDGES OF JUST
THINK ABOUT THAT ONE PIECE
ALONG I THINK IS ENOUGH TO GET
PAST THE THE TEMPTATION TO JUST
HAVE A DEVELOPER DO IT SO THE
CITY DOESN'T HAVE TO PAY FOR
IT.
THE CITY IS AFTER ALL
RESPONSIBLE FOR FROM THE GET
THERE'S NO QUESTION ABOUT THAT
ZERO AND THE CITY SHOULD TAKE
SOME RESPONSIBILITY HERE
REGARDLESS OF WHAT THE COST IS
THERE IF YOU HAVE TO THAT'S
WHAT YOU'RE SUPPOSED TO DO.
THE THE OTHER POINT THAT I'D
LIKE TO MAKE IS THAT IF YOU GO
BACK TO THE VERY BEGINNING
OF THIS PROCESS, THERE HAVE
BEEN SOME SERIOUS
MISREPRESENTATIONS MADE BY
CERTAIN PEOPLE DURING THE
COURSE OF THE EARLY WEAPONEERS
IN THE EARLY MEETINGS AND
SURVEYS HAVE A FACE A
QUESTIONNAIRE THAT ASKED FOR
GOALS PRIORITIZING OF THOSE
GOALS THE LOWEST PRIORITY IN
THE ENTIRE SURVEY.
BOTH RESIDENTS NEARBY CITY
WIDE, THE LAST LOWEST SCORE WAS
THE FIRST SELLING THIS PROPERTY
IN ORDER TO GENERATE MORE MONEY
FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING FROM THE
BOTTOM.
YET THAT HAS BEEN THE
OVERRIDING GOAL AND IT'S BEEN
POINTED OUT SEVERAL TIMES THAT
YOU WON'T EVEN GET ANY MONEY
FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING BECAUSE
THE DEVELOPER WILL OBVIOUSLY
JUST DISCOUNT THE PURCHASE
PRICE BY THE AMOUNT THAT THEY
WOULD HAVE TO PAY IN SO THE
ENTIRE GOAL WHICH WAS GREAT
LAST AND HAS BEEN DRIVING THIS
COST IN ANYWAY IS PHANTOM.
AND IF YOU APPROVE THIS JUST
WITH THOSE TWO COMPONENTS LOW
ON JURY, THE IMPACT SAYING THAT
IT SHOULDN'T BE BUILT THERE AND
HE'S THE STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
MANAGER, ET CETERA, ET CETERA,
ALL THE COMPETING CONSIDERATION
THAT HAVE BEEN THAT HAVE BEEN
DISCUSSED AGAINST NONE OF THEM
ARE JUST GOING TO BE THE
COMPETING CONSIDERATIONS ALWAYS
GO BY THE BOARDS IN ORDER TO
SUPPORT NEW MARKET RATE LUXURY
HOUSING WHICH WILL NOT PRODUCE
IN ANY IMPROVEMENT IN
AFFORDABILITY WHATSOEVER THAT
REALLY IS NO REASON TO DO THIS.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
CALLER WITH THE PHONE
NUMBER AND AGAIN SIX FOUR FOUR
DO YOU HAVE COMMENT GO.
YES, MY NAME IS KATHY BORRUS I
LIVE AT 176 CHARLETON I DO
AGREE WITH A LOT OF THINGS THAT
PREVIOUS CALLERS HAVE SAID.
I WANT TO MENTION TWO OF THEM.
ONE IS AT THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
GUIDELINES SHOULD PROTECT THE
NEIGHBORHOOD SURROUNDING FOUR
ONE FIVE WASHINGTON THE
SKETCHES THAT I HAVE SEEN
OF THE BUILDING PROPOSED MOST
RECENTLY THE BUILDING IS TOO
TALL AND IT'S TOO MASSIVE.
THIS IS CLEAR HISTORIC DISTRICT
GUIDELINES SHOULD GOVERN IN
THIS CASE THAT'S THE FIRST
THING.
THE SECOND THING IS THAT JERRY
HANDCOCK IS OUR STORMWATER
MANAGER.
HE'S OUR FLOODPLAIN EXPERT FOUR
ONE FIVE WASHINGTON PRETTY MUCH
THE WHOLE OF THAT BLOCK IS
EITHER FLOOD FRINGE OR FLOODWAY
JERRY HALF AS AS AN ARBORS
EXPERT ON THE FLOODPLAIN
RECOMMENDS THAT NOTHING BE
BUILT ON THE SITE BECAUSE
OF THIS AND I HOPE THAT YOU
WILL PLEASE FOLLOW HIS ADVICE
AND NOT WE SOLD THIS LAND FOR
DEVELOPMENT.
THANK YOU.
ALEX LOWE, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
>> HI, THIS IS ALEX LOCHLYN IN
FROM SOUTH SOUTHEAST EAST AND
I'M NOT ACTUALLY A HUGE FAN
OF THIS COMMUNITY AS PROPOSED.
I GUARANTEE THE KIDS HEIGHT
LIMITS THAT ARE ARCHER'S PRETTY
RIDICULOUS REQUIREMENTS AND IS
GENERALLY AS SOME HAVE
SUGGESTED WE MAKE IT WORSE.
THEY'VE SUGGESTED WE PRESERVE
THIS HISTORIC BLIND POLLUTION.
OTHERS SEEM TO HAVE BEEN TOO
BUSY PLANNING THEIR HOMEOWNERS
TO PAY ATTENTION TO
ADMINISTRATION FINANCIAL TO
COUNCIL AS THEY SUGGEST THAT
THE CITY COULD DIG INTO ITS
APPARENTLY UNLIMITED COFFERS
DURING THE POLLUTION.
>> SO FIRST OF ALL BY A LONG
SHOT USE PUBLIC COMMENT SECTION
THE REPEAT LINE AND SO WHAT
DOES THIS MEAN FOR 415 W W WELL
WHERE THE HOUSING PRICES AND
WE'RE IN A NAZI PROPAGANDA
CRISIS INSUFFICIENT HOUSING BY
TOO MUCH NAZI PROPAGANDA.
FORTUNATELY THE CITY CAN DO
SOMETHING ABOUT THE FALL.
I'D LOVE TO SEE THOSE PRETTY
IMPROVED TREMENDOUSLY AND I
THINK THE COUNCIL SHOULD TELL
THE COMMISSION TO INCREASE THE
LIMIT.
LET US PUT SOME OF THAT LIKE A
UNIVERSITY ADVISOR OR EVEN JUST
LIKE THESE AS THE FIRST IN
WASHINGTON APARTMENTS IN THE
EASTERN PERFECT BE THE ENEMY
OF THE GOOD JUST PAST THE SMALL
IMPROVEMENT NOW AND THAT'S
IMPROVED FURTHER LATER IT MAY
BE WELL DOING SO WE SHOULD ALSO
CONSIDER WHETHER THIS BLIGHTED
GRAFFITI COVERED PARKING LOT
AND ABANDONED BUILDING OR WAS
BEING CONSIDERED HISTORIC AND I
CAN DO BETTER THAN THIS.
LET'S NOT CUT OUR FINANCES JUST
BY DESPITE OUR FACES BY LEAVING
IT LIKE THIS BECAUSE WE WERE
WORRIED THAT SOMETHING MIGHT
JUST MIGHT NOT BE TO THE LIKING
OF A THOUSAND HOME OWNERS IN
THE AREA AND WORRY ABOUT THE
FACT THAT WE ARE IN A HOUSING
CRISIS.
>> THIRTY SECONDS SOMETHING
BIGGER.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
>> I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER
CALLERS ON THE LINE.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE WANT TO
SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
?
SEE NO ONE THIS PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED.
LET'S TAKE A SHORT BREAK AND
RECONVENE AT 10 PM
SO I'D LIKE
TO START BY SAYING THANK YOU
AND HOW GRATEFUL I AM TO ALL
THE FOLKS WHO SPOKE AT A PUBLIC
HEARING TONIGHT INTO THE
MEETINGS THAT I'VE HAD IN THE
PAST AS WELL WITH RESIDENTS, WE
HEARD A VARIETY DIFFERENT
VIEWPOINTS ON THIS REZONING AND
YOU THIS IS OBVIOUSLY A VERY
COMPLEX SITE FOR OUR COMMUNITY
.
THE CITY VACATED THE PROPERTY
AND IN TWO SEVEN, SIX YEARS
AGO.
SO WE'VE BEEN THROUGH A PRETTY
EXHAUSTIVE PROCESS TO DATE TO
GET US TO WHERE WE'RE AT RIGHT
NOW.
WE HAVE EVALUATED A VARIETY
OF DIFFERENT PROPOSALS.
WE HAVE LOOKED AT ADAPTIVE
REUSE.
WE'VE DONE STUDIES ON THE
FLOODING THE SITE.
WE'VE PUT OUT AN RFP IN THE IN
THE PAST AND NOT BEEN ABLE TO
SEE THAT MOVE FORWARD AND
THAT'S WHAT'S HELPED INFORM US
TO WHAT WE ARE WHERE WE'RE AT
TODAY AND IN TAKING THIS
APPROACH TO IDENTIFY WHAT THE
COMMUNITY VALUES ARE WITH THIS
SITE AND THEN DEVELOP A
PROPOSAL THAT WE CAN GO BACK
OUT TO THE DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY WITH THOSE PRIORITIES
SO THAT WE CAN GET SOMETHING
BACK THAT THAT MEETS OUR OUR
COMMUNITY GOALS AND VALUES.
WE HEARD A VARIETY OF DIFFERENT
COMMENTS MADE TODAY BUT I DID
WANT TO TOUCH ON A COUPLE
OF THEM, ONE OF WHICH IS IS
FUNDAMENTALLY THE THE FACT THAT
THIS IS A BLIGHTED AND POLLUTED
SITE AND THAT IT'S THIS IS OUR
SITE
.
THIS IS A CONTAMINATION THAT WE
HAVE CONTRIBUTED TO AS A CITY
AND THAT IT'S OUR DUTY AND
RESPONSIBILITY TO CLEAN IT UP
AND TO CLEAN IT UP NOW.
AND I DON'T DISAGREE WITH THAT
AT ALL.
THAT IS YOU IT IS OUR
RESPONSIBILITY TO DO THAT.
AND AS I LOOK AT THIS PROPOSAL
FOR THAT'S ONE OF THE REASONS
THAT THAT HELPS TO MOTIVATE ME
TO TO TO BELIEVE THAT THIS IS
THE RIGHT PROCESS FOR US TO
MOVE FORWARD WHEN WE GET TO I
DON'T LOOK AT THIS IS IS THE
CITY WE ARE IS ASKING
DEVELOPERS TO PAY FOR THIS.
WE WILL BE PAYING FOR THIS.
WE WOULD BE USING OUR
BROWNFIELD USING A BROWNFIELD
PLAN EVENTUALLY TO HELP PAY FOR
THE CLEANUP OF THIS.
BUT IT WOULD BE INITIALLY THAT
CLEANUP WOULD BE PAID FOR BY
PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT AND IT
WOULD BE ULTIMATELY PAY BACK
MUCH OF IT THROUGH DEVELOPMENT,
THROUGH THROUGH TAX DOLLARS,
THROUGH THAT THROUGH THOSE THAT
TAX REVENUE.
SO WHAT WE'RE NOT DOING IS
GOING AFTER GOING TO OUR
GENERAL FUND RIGHT NOW TO CLEAN
THAT UP AND INSTEAD WE ARE ABLE
TO GET DELIVERED A LOT OF OUR
OTHER COMMUNITY PRODUCE IN THE
PROCESS.
WE'RE BUILDING MORE HOUSING.
WE ARE PROTECTING THE CHIMNEY
SWEEPS THAT ARE THERE.
WE ARE IDENTIFYING WE'RE
PROTECTING NOT BUILDING IN THE
FLOODPLAIN.
WE ARE INCREASING THE ARE ARE
OPEN SPACE IN THAT AREA.
IT'S A COMPLEX SITE AND I KNOW
THAT DEPENDING ON THE LENS
THROUGH WHICH PEOPLE ARE
LOOKING AT THIS YOU CAN COME TO
RIGHTFULLY I THINK A LOT
OF DIFFERENT CONCLUSIONS ON
THIS.
BUT AS A COUNCIL MEMBER COUNCIL
I WILL SPEAK TO THIS MY SECOND
MAN SECOND TIME AS WELL FOR THE
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER
BRAKE'S OR DISH THE OTHER YEAH
IF YOU INSIST SO I JUST WANTED
TO REMIND US ALL THAT WE ARE
ASKED TO RESULT IN APPROVED FOR
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT OF TWO
POINT FIVE ACRE SITE LOCATED
THE OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC
DISTRICT IN THE ALLEN CREEK
FLOODPLAIN.
THE REZONING PETITION IS
ACCOMPANIED BY A CONCEPT PLAN
FOR AN ELEVATED RESIDENTIAL
STRUCTURE OF ABOUT ONE HUNDRED
AND THIRTY FOUR THOUSAND SQUARE
FEET.
THAT WILL BE FIVE STOREYS AT
ITS HIGHEST POINT.
A MINIMUM OF 60 PERCENT OF THE
SITE IS REQUIRED TO BE
PRESERVED AS OPEN SPACE AND THE
TREE LINE TRAIL WILL BE BUILT
BY THE SUPPLEMENTAL REGS IT IS
REQUIRED TO BE BUILT THROUGH
THAT SPACE.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING IS ALSO
REQUIRED AND MUST BE PROVIDED
THE RAYDER OF 15 PERCENT OR 15
UNITS THE UNITS MAY BE PROVIDED
ON SITE OR A PAYMENT IN LIEU
EQUIVALENT MAY BE MADE AND
WE'VE THROWN IN ONE FINAL
REQUIREMENT FOR GOOD MEASURE
WHICH IS THE PRESERVATION
OF THE CHIMNEY SWIFT HABITAT
AND I'M NOT TRYING TO MAKE
LIGHT OF HABITATS.
I'M JUST TRYING TO UNDERSCORE
IT.
YES, THIS IS A COMPLEX SITE
THAT MANY COMMUNITY VALUES ARE
BEING HAVE BEEN INTRODUCED
INTO.
SO YES, IT IS IT IS IT IS TRUE
THAT THIS SITE CANNOT BE
DEVELOPED PRIMARILY FOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AS THE OTHER
CITY OWNED SITES ARE BEING
DEVELOPED BECAUSE WE WOULD NEED
FEDERAL FUNDING TO SUBSIDIZE
SUCH A DEVELOPMENT AND FEDERAL
FUNDING CANNOT BE USED HERE.
BUT THAT DOESN'T MEAN THAT
THERE COULDN'T BE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING UNITS ON THE SITE OR
THAT IT WON'T PAY INTO OUR
FUND.
NOW THE CLEANUP WILL BE
EXPENSIVE AT THIS STAGE WE ONLY
HAVE ESTIMATES TO WORK WITH BUT
IT SOUNDS LIKE IT'S UP TO A
MILLION TO DEAL WITH A
CONTAMINATION DOUBLE THAT OR
MORE TO DISMANTLE THE EXISTING
ASBESTOS FILLED BUILDING AND
THEN MORE TO ESTABLISH
REASONABLE STORMWATER CONTROL.
YOU HEARD TONIGHT MR. TO SAY
THAT HE LEFT ONE MILLION
UNALLOCATED FROM THE GENERAL
FUND.
THIS CLEANUP WOULD REQUIRE
THREE TIMES THAT AND SO IF WE
WERE TO TRY TO FUND THIS OUT
OF GENERAL FUND FUNDS, WE WOULD
NEED TO NOT DO THINGS THAT
PEOPLE URGENTLY WANT US TO DO.
YOU ARE ABSOLUTELY RIGHT THAT
THIS IS THE CITY'S
RESPONSIBILITY TO CLEAN UP AND
WE ARE EXERCISING THAT
RESPONSIBILITY THROUGH THE USE
OF BROWNFIELD TAX CREDITS WHICH
ARE DESIGNED EXACTLY FOR THE
PURPOSES OF DEVELOPMENT AND
ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP AND WHICH
THE CITY USES REGULARLY.
FINALLY WE'VE HEARD CONCERN
ABOUT PUTTING ABOUT RESIDENTIAL
DEVELOPMENT IN A FLOODPLAIN.
THE CONCEPT PLAN WOULD
SIGNIFICANTLY IMPROVE THE FLOOD
CONTROL THAT EXISTS CURRENTLY
THE CONCEPT PLAN WOULD REMOVE A
STRUCTURE THAT SITS BELOW THE
FLOODPLAIN, PROVIDE STORMWATER
MANAGEMENT WHERE THERE
CURRENTLY IS NONE NONE AT ALL
CLEAN UP ON SITE CONTAMINATION
AND HALT BOTH IN MIGRATION AND
OUTMIGRATION AND FURTHER
CONTAMINATION SIGNIFICANTLY
REDUCE IMPERVIOUS SURFACE AND
CONFORM FULLY WITH THE CITY'S
REVISED AND STRENGTHENED FLOOD
PLAIN ORDINANCE WHICH WAS
WRITTEN BY MR. JERRY HANCOCK
WHO ALSO WROTE THE HAZARD
MITIGATION PLAN.
AND I THINK THAT'S GOOD ENOUGH
FOR NOW.
BUT THERE ARE MANY GOOD REASONS
TO APPROVE IT.
COUNCIL MUSONG I WAS LOOKING AT
WHAT BROWNFIELD PROJECTS WE'VE
ALREADY APPROVED IN THE PAST
YEAR AND TRYING TO TRYING TO
RECALL THAT PROCESS.
WE APPROVED A BROWNFIELD
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT AND
KOREATOWN TOWN OFFERED DETROIT
AND FIFTH AVENUE FOR A 14 UNIT
CONDO DEVELOPMENT AND WE HAD
BUT THAT WAS THAT WAS AFTER WE
WERE A SITE PLAN WAS SUBMITTED
FOR AND THEN FOR US TO VOTE ON
WHETHER THEY COULD USE
BROWNFIELD TAX INCENTIVES AND
THEN AFTER THAT AFTER THAT
APPROVAL GOES TO THE COUNTY
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS AND THE
COUNTY BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY.
SO I THINK WE STILL HAVEN'T
ACTUALLY STARTED THAT PROCESS.
WE'RE JUST SPEAKING THE
POSSIBILITY ONCE THIS IS
RESOLVED AS OPPOSED.
BUT I JUST WANT TO POINT TO
LIKE HOW WE'VE DONE THIS PRETTY
CLOSE TO WHERE THE SITE IS AND
EVERY TOWN AND WE'VE DONE WE'VE
APPROVED A MUCH LARGER
BROWNFIELD PROJECT THIS
NOTORIOUS BIO ANALYTICAL
INSTRUMENTS PARCEL THAT WAS OFF
RESEARCH PARK DRIVE AND WE ARE
PRETTY COMFORTABLE WITH WORKING
WITH THAT PROJECT THERE WHERE
WE APPROVE TWO POINT SEVEN
MILLION IN BROWNFIELD
ASSISTANCE.
SO IF WE ARE ON THIS PATH
OF TRYING TO REMEDIATE PARCELS
SO THEY CAN ACTUALLY BE USED, I
FEEL LIKE THIS COUNCIL HAS HAS
HAD THE EXPERIENCE
OF UNDERSTANDING WHAT THAT
MEANS AND THE IMPACT AND
KNOWING THAT THIS WOULD
ACTUALLY BRING SOME TIMELINESS
TO THE CLEANUP AND ADDITIONAL
DOLLARS THAT CAN BE LEVERAGED
AS AN ADDITIONAL OVERSIGHT WITH
THE CITY AND THE COUNTY IN THE
STATE BECAUSE WE ACTUALLY HAD
TO QUALIFY UNDER STATE
REGULATIONS IN ORDER TO TO
CAPTURE THESE TIPS.
SO SHOULD THERE BE SOME
DISCONTENT ABOUT HOW THIS CITY
COUNCIL FUNCTIONS AND REVIEWS
THESE PROJECTS?
THERE ARE OTHER AUTHORITIES WHO
ALSO TAKE A LOOK AT THIS TOO.
SO IT IS KIND OF HARD TO
REVISIT WHAT THE PROCESS IS
LIKE AND WHAT WE'VE APPROVED IN
THE PAST.
COUNCIL COUNCILMAN BRACKMAN,
THANK YOU.
I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO
APPROVING THIS TONIGHT.
IT'S BEEN A BLIGHTED SITE FOR
AS LONG AS I'VE LIVED IN ANN
ARBOR WHICH IS OVER TWENTY
YEARS.
I DID WANT TO SPEAK I GUESS TO
SOMETHING THAT HASN'T REALLY
BEEN SPOKEN DIRECTLY TO YOU AT
THE TABLE YET WHICH IS ABOUT
THIS BEING IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
AND I WANT TO POINT OUT THAT IN
THE PUDI THAT IS BEFORE US IT
SAYS THAT THE DEVELOPMENT IS
WITHIN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT AND SHALL
MEET ALL RELEVANT REQUIREMENTS
.
THE SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS DO
NOT SUPERSEDE THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT REGULATIONS NOR DO
THEY PRECLUDE THE DEVELOPMENT
FROM MEETING THOSE REGULATIONS
.
I'D ALSO LIKE TO POINT PEOPLE
TO AN ADDITION THAT WAS MADE TO
OUR PACKET OF MATERIALS FOR THE
SITE EARLIER TODAY AND THAT IS
A LETTER FROM THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION WHERE THEY
SAY THE VERY TOP OF THE LETTER
THEY'RE PLEASED TO SEE PROGRESS
ON THE REDEVELOPMENT OF THE
SITE DESPITE ITS CHALLENGES AS
GREAT POTENTIAL AS THE SETTING
FOR A PROJECT THAT IS POSITIVE
FOR THE NEIGHBORHOOD DOWNTOWN
AND FUTURE RESIDENTS, THEY GO
ON TO TALK ABOUT WHAT CONCERNS
THAT THEY WOULD HAVE.
THEY NOTE THAT WHAT THEY
REVIEWED BEFORE THEM IS NOT
FINAL FLIGHT PLAN IS A
SCHEMATIC AND THEY TALK ABOUT
SOME OF THE THINGS THAT THEY
WOULD BE LOOKING FOR IN THEIR
REVIEW OF THE SITE SETBACKS
ETC. SO I JUST WANTED TO POINT
PEOPLE TO THAT.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER QUINNELL, THANKS
TO COUNCILMAN BREGMAN WHO
POINTED OUT THAT MEMO FROM THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION.
I THINK IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT
THAT WE DO POINT OUT THAT THERE
WERE SOME ASSERTIONS MADE THAT
THIS WAS BEING THESE DECISIONS
ARE BEING MADE WITHOUT THEIR
INPUT IN SORT OF SKIRT AROUND
THEM AND THAT IS JUST NOT THE
CASE.
AND I THINK THAT THE FACT THAT
THEY'RE LOOKING FORWARD TO
WORKING TO ADVANCE THEIR GOALS
ALONGSIDE THE REDEVELOPMENT
OF THIS PROCESS OR THIS
PROJECT, THIS PARCEL IS REALLY
IMPORTANT.
THIS IS HOW GOVERNMENT SHOULD
WORK.
WE SHOULD BE COLLABORATING
ALONG THESE ALONG THOSE LINES
AND SO I'M EXCITED ABOUT THAT.
I THINK THE ONE THING THAT I
WANTED TO ADDRESS AS WELL WAS
SOME IDEA THAT THIS DEVELOPING
THIS PROPERTY WOULD SOMEHOW
SEPARATE THAT NEIGHBORHOOD FROM
DOWNTOWN.
I GUESS WHAT I SEE IT DOING IS
ADVANCING THE TREE LINE TRAIL
SPECIFICALLY IF YOU LOOK AT THE
PROPOSAL OR THE REQUIREMENTS
FOR IT THAT IT WOULD ACTUALLY
HAVE A 15 FOOT WIDE NON
MOTORIZED PATH THAT CONNECTS
LIBERTY IN WASHINGTON STREET
WHICH IS CURRENTLY WALKING
THROUGH THERE EVERY SINGLE DAY.
I WISH THAT THERE WAS A PATH
THERE AND THAT THERE WOULD BE A
MINIMUM OF 60 PERCENT OPEN
SPACE ON THAT SITE WHICH WE
HEARD TO COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGGS
POINT BOTH PROS AND CONS AROUND
THE LENS AT WHICH WITH WHICH WE
LOOK AT THESE BUT GAINING THAT
OPEN SPACE WITHOUT POLLUTION ON
THAT SITE IS IS SOMETHING I
THINK I'M EXCITED ABOUT AND
CERTAINLY SEEING THAT WE'RE
WORKING TOWARDS INCORPORATING
THE TREE LINE TRAIL INTO THIS,
I THINK THAT THAT'S AN
IMPORTANT WAY TO ACTUALLY
CONNECT OUR NEIGHBORHOOD TO
DOWNTOWN AND TO A BROADER SET
OF TRAILS THAT ARE
REALLY
USEFUL TO THE COMMUNITY.
SO I WILL BE SUPPORTING THIS
CAST MEMBER BRIGS, THANKS AND
THANKS TO MY COLLEAGUES FOR
ADDING IN MANY OF THE OTHER
COMMENTS THAT I WAS INTERESTED
IN SAYING ONE THING THAT THAT I
SPOKE TO AT THE LAST MEETING,
HOWEVER, WAS THERE'S ONE
ELEMENT THAT HAS NOT BEEN
INCORPORATED INTO THIS PROPOSAL
YET.
OBVIOUSLY OUR CITY HAS DECLARED
A CLIMATE EMERGENCY AND IT'S
IMPORTANT THAT WHEN WE'RE I
BELIEVE THAT IT'S IMPORTANT
THAT WHEN WE'RE GOING OUT WITH
A DEVELOPMENT PROPOSAL ON A
CITY ON SITE THAT WE WOULD
COMMUNICATE OUR OUR CLIMATE
PRIORITIES WITH THIS AS WELL.
SO I HAVE SENT AROUND A
PROPOSED AMENDMENT THAT I'D
LIKE TO MOVE TO AMEND THE
ORDINANCE BY ADDING THE
FOLLOWING TO THE 415 WEST
WASHINGTON PD SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS SECTION FOUR BEAUTY
REGULATIONS WITH A SUBSECTION G
ENTITLED BUILDING
SUSTAINABILITY.
ANY BUILDINGS SHALL BE DESIGNED
IN A MANNER TO BE CONSIDERED AT
MINIMUM NET ZERO READY AS
DETERMINED BY THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
INNOVATION PRIOR TO THE
ISSUANCE OF A BUILDING PERMIT.
IS THERE A SECOND BY COUNCILOR
ECKMANN KAZMIR?
YEAH THANKS.
SO I WORKED WITH STAFF TO
DEVELOP THIS.
OBVIOUSLY WE DON'T KNOW WHAT
KIND OF DEVELOPMENT IS GOING TO
BE PROPOSED AND SO IN TERMS
OF ACTUALLY PROVIDING SPECIFIC
ELEMENTS DEFINING EXACTLY WHAT
WE MEAN IS VERY DIFFICULT AT
THIS STAGE IN THE GAME.
BUT WHAT I DO THINK IS
IMPORTANT IS THAT WE WOULD GO
OUT TO THE DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY WITH AN EXPECTATION
OF THE TYPE OF BUILDING THAT WE
WOULD LIKE TO SEE BACK.
SO NET ZERO READY CERTAINLY
INDICATES TO THE DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY THAT WE'RE LOOKING
FOR A HIGHLY ENERGY EFFICIENT
BUILDING AND A BUILDING THAT
COULD BE CONVERTED TO TO NET
ZERO IN THE FUTURE.
HOPEFULLY WE'LL HAVE A LOT
OF COMPETITIVE RESPONSES TO
THIS AND FOLKS MAY MAY PROVIDE
US MORE MORE IN NETZER ALREADY
BUT THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY WOULD BE
WOULD BE REVIEWING THIS.
SO I'M HOPEFUL THAT THEIR
SUPPORT FOR US THIS EVENING IS
THAT I'M IN THE LOBBY.
>> IT'S FRIENDLY FURTHER
DISCUSSION THE MAIN MOTION AS
AMENDED FOR FOR MY PART I AM
DELIGHTED THAT THIS IS IS
INDEED MOVING FORWARD.
THE SITE HAS BEEN BLIGHTED FOR
YEARS AND THERE HAVE BEEN AS
PREVIOUSLY ARTICULATED A NUMBER
OF OF EFFORTS TO TO ADDRESS IT.
THOSE EFFORTS HAVE FALTERED ON
THE SHOALS OF THE SITE.
IT IS A PARTICULARLY COMPLEX
LOCATION FOR A VARIETY
OF REASONS.
THE CURRENT PLAN IN MY VIEW
HOLDS A GREAT DEAL OF PROMISE
AND I'M EXCITED THAT WE ARE
MOVING IT FORWARD TODAY.
I BELIEVE THAT IT HAS A REAL
SHOT AT ACCOMPLISHING A WIDE
VARIETY OF OUR GOALS FOR THE
BETTERMENT OF THE COMMUNITY.
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THEATER
POSED IT IS APPROVED.
SEE WHAT AN AUDIENCE AMEND
SECTION 263 OF CHAPTER TO NINE
WATER RIGHTS OF TITLE TWO
OF THE CODE THE CITY THEN ARBER
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER MY
CUSTOMER GHAZI EDWYN DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF ONE FAVOR POST IS
APPROVED C TO IN ORDER TO AMEND
SECTION 216 OF CHAPTER TWENTY
NINE STORM WATER RIGHTS
OF TITLE TWO OF THE CODE OF THE
CITY NO MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
THIS SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C
TO UNFAVORITE POST IT IS
APPROVED DC ONE RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE AMENDMENTS TO THE
COUNCIL RULES MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER IA SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER ACKMANN DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF C ONE DENHA IACP VERY
BRIEFLY TO THESE I WAS NOT
ACTUALLY AT THE MEETING WHERE
WHERE THESE ARE VOTED OUT
OF ADMIN BUT I KNOW THAT
SOMEBODY WHO REQUESTED THE CITY
ATTORNEY TO TO LOOK AT SOME
OF THESE ARE RELATIVELY THE
PROCESS CHANGE ALLOWING TO
POSTPONE ITEMS RELEVANT TO OR
SPECIFIC TO IT TO A MEETING IN
THE FUTURE WHICH I KNOW WAS A
QUESTION IN THE PAST AND THEN
ALSO ALLOWING US TO TO GROUP
TOGETHER ITEMS OF SIMILAR
CONTENT IN THE FUTURE SO THAT
WE WERE MORE RESPECTFUL OF THE
COMMUNITY'S TIME WHEN THEY COME
OUT TO THESE MEETINGS AND AND
PARTICIPATE SO THAT WHEN THEY
WHEN THEY ARE HERE TO SPEAK
THEY CAN ACTUALLY SEE US TAKE
ACTION ON THOSE ITEMS AS WELL.
SO I LOOK FORWARD LOOKING
FORWARD TO SUPPORTING THESE
FURTHER DISCUSSION.
COUNCILOR WATSON, I JUST WANT
TO THANK THE CITY ATTORNEY
COVER FOR HER WORK ON THIS.
IT WAS HER NEW PERSPECTIVE
ACTUALLY THAT CALLED CALLED TO
OUR ATTENTION THAT WE ACTUALLY
NEED TO BE ABLE TO SPECIFY THAT
WE CAN POSTPONE AN ITEM FOR
MULTIPLE MEETINGS OR TO A
SPECIFIC DATE.
WE HAD KIND OF BEEN OPERATING
ON A WE HAD AND SPECIFIED THAT
WE WERE ABLE TO DO THAT AND
THEN WE'VE SEEN IN THE PAST YOU
KNOW, WE'VE SEEN THAT SOMETIMES
AGENDA ITEMS WILL CROSS OVER
AND SO WHEN THERE'S PUBLIC
COMMENT OR PUBLIC HEARING ON
THEM, WE'D LIKE TO HEAR IT KIND
OF ALL AT ONCE RATHER THAN
CUTTING PEOPLE OFF MIDWAY
THROUGH SOMETHING BECAUSE
COMMENTING ON SAY THE ZONING
PORTION RATHER THAN THE SITE
PLAN ETC..
SO JUST ONCE AGAIN, THANK YOU
TO THE ATTORNEYS OFFICE FOR THE
WORK ON THIS AND I'LL BE
SUPPORTING IT FURTHER
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED IT IS
APPROVED.
I DO THE PLEASURE OF A CLOSED
SESSION TODAY.
YOU DO NOT WE BEFORE THE CLERKS
REPORT OF COMMUNICATIONS
PETITIONS AND REFERRALS THE
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE SMART
MOVE BY COUNCILOR DENHA SAYING
BY COUNCILOR FOR WATSON
DISCUSSION OR FAVOR OF CLARK
SUPPORTERS APPROVED OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OUR CITY
ATTORNEY.
>> NO THANK YOU.
THERE IS NO PUBLIC COMMENT
OVERFLOW AND SO WE HAVE A
MOTION TO ADJOURN PLEASE BY
COUNCILOR BECAUSE HE HAD BEEN
TAKING THE COUNCIL IN NO
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR OPPOSED.
WE'RE ADJOURNED.
THANK